--- https://mbaroi.in/
Please wait...
MBA
Modes of MBA Programs
Types of MBA Specialization
Sales
Marketing
Finance
Business Analytics
Human Resource
Education loan
MBA Entrance Exams
CAT
Top MBA Colleges Accepting CAT Score
About CAT
Exam Date
Admit Card
Eligibility
Registration
Syllabus
Previous Year Papers
All About CAP
WAT & PI
CAT Answer Key 2024
CAT College Predictor
CAT Mock Test
CAT Result 2024
MBA ROI Calculator
CMAT
About CMAT
CMAT Admit Card
Preparation
CAMAT Previous Years Papers
CMAT Result
CMAT Answer Key
XAT
About XAT
MAT
About MAT
MAT Accepting Colleges
MAT Exam Preparation
GMAT
About GMAT
NMAT
About NMAT
SNAP
About SNAP
ATMA
About ATMA
Exam Dates
IBSAT
About IBSAT
IIFT
About IIFT
IIFT Cut Offs 2021
GD & PI
Group Discussion
About Group Discussion
Types of GD
GD Phases & Procedures
GD Evaluation Criteria
Do's & Don'ts in GD
GD Tips & Strategies
GD Etiquette
Trending GD Topics
Personal Interview
GD Topics
MBA Colleges
Colleges by Ranking
Top 10 MBA Colleges
Top 50 MBA Colleges
Top 100 MBA Colleges
Top/Best MBA Colleges
Colleges by Specialization
Top MBA Colleges for Business Analytics
Top MBA Colleges for Marketing
Top MBA Colleges for Finance
Top MBA Colleges for FinTech
Best Placement MBA Colleges
Colleges by Location
MBA Colleges In Ahmedabad
MBA Colleges In Bangalore
MBA Colleges In Delhi NCR
MBA Colleges In Hyderabad
MBA Colleges In Indore
MBA Colleges In Jaipur
MBA Colleges In Mumbai
MBA Colleges In Pune
Colleges by Zone
MBA Colleges In East Zone
MBA Colleges In West zone
MBA Colleges In North Zone
MBA Colleges In south Zone
International MBA Colleges
Top International MBA Colleges
Articles
IIM Info
IIM News
IIM WAT 2023
All About CAP 2023
IIM Seats and Fees
IIM Waitlist Movement
IIM Cut off
IIM Without CAT
IIM Placements
IIM Admission Predictor
MBA Tools
AI Resume Builder
MBA Admission Predictor
MBA Strength Finder
Program Finder
GRIT Scale
Career Calculator
IIM Call Predictor
IIM & NON-IIM COLLEGE PREDICTOR is a tool where the MBA aspirants get to generate a list of colleges where they could apply based on their performance in the CAT exam.
MBA Admission Predictor will take your profile and calculate the required CAT percentile on the basis of 10th, 12th, Graduation percentage, Caste, Experience and Stream as per the guidlines of IIM-A.
MBAROI Calculator
ROI of an MBA should be seen as how much social and economic status you achieve in your life.
More Details Here
MBA Program Finder
'Program Finder' is an intelligently designed tool that helps you connect with your ideal MBA program better than others.
Education Loan EMI Calculator
Education Loan EMI Calculator helps estimate monthly repayments based on loan amount, interest rate, and tenure, making it easier to plan finances for higher studies
Trending GD Topics for MBA students to pratice for their next groupd discussion round.
Career Calculator helps individuals assess their skills, interests, and market trends to make informed career choices and plan future growth.
CAT Exam Updates
Get all the information about the upcoming CAT 2025 Exam from dates to syllabus.
Free MBA Mock Test
Our mocks are meticulously designed and regularly updated to align with the latest exam patterns, ensuring students are well-prepared for real-time challenges.
Upcoming Exam News
NOTIFICATIONS
Schedule of Top MBA Entrance Exams
CAT Result
Application Deadline for Colleges
Best ROI MBA Colleges
XAT Exam Updates
MAT Exam Updates
IIM CAP
WAT & PI Preparation
WAT for IIMs
MBAROI Recommended Colleges
MBA Colleges in India  List of top MBA colleges in India
MBA Colleges by Location Location wise list of top MBA colleges in India
MBA Colleges by Ranking  Rank wise list of top MBA colleges in India
MBA Colleges by Specialization  List of top MBA colleges in India by specialization
MBA Entrance Exams   Details of top MBA entrance exams
It’s thrilling that a B-School is considering accepting your application, but feeling nervous about it, means you need to prepare more for an MBA interview is the only way to fight anxiety.  Keep Reading
Books MBA Student Must Read
GD  Preparation
PI  Preparation
Do's & Don'ts During Preparation
Guide For Top MBA Entrance Exams
Online Doubt Clearing Sessions
List of MBA Coaching Centers
ScholarshipsRegister for college scholarship
Pay after Placement optionSecure your education investment and pay after placement
Education LoanPursue your dream with Education Loan
Discounted / Free ApplicationsFill the MBA college registration form on discounted application fee
Schedule Online InterviewSchedule MBA admission interview online
IIM CAP 2024
IIM WAT 2024
IIM Seats & Fees
IIM Cut Off
The Indian Institutes of Management or IIMs are formed under the control of Ministry of Education, Government of India for postgraduate, doctoral and executive programs in business administration.This was a project initiated by Jawaharlal Nehru, the first Prime Minister of India, after the recommendations from Planning Commission of India.
Here below is the updated information on top MBA entrance exams to be held in 2024 and 2024 for the MBA admissions during 2025.
Popular Articles
Is managing a team an easy task? No, right! But can it be made effortless? Sure! With the rise of advanced technology, everything has become kind of simple than before so why [...]
Yes, you heard it right! After reading this article you will know how you can get into IIMs without CAT?
The Indian Instit[...]
Getting an invite to admission interview at a Business School will provoke two feelings:
ThrillA[...]
MBA is a very popular stream for post-graduation in India. India is home to approximately 5500 B schools. A pool of management students, not just from  India but from abroad [...]
info@mbaroi.in
+91 86197 98661
Terms And Conditions
About Us
Contact Us
Privacy Policy
Disclaimer
Cancellation
Refund Policy
Events
Education Loan
Purpose of Personal Interview (PI)
Types of Group Discussions
Evaluation Criteria
Best MBA Coachings
Doubt clearing online
How to prepare for GD PI
Talk to CAT Crackers
Top 100 Colleges of India
Top 50 Colleges of India
ROI Calculator
Best ROI Colleges
Recommended Colleges
Ask the Expert
Talk to Current Students
Download
© Copyright 2020 MBAROI.IN All Rights Reserved | Owned by Daddysdata Analytica Inc.
--- https://mbaroi.in/login/
Login to MBAROI
Login Benefits
College Predictor
TOP 10 B Schools In India
CAT Importants Dates
CAT Syllabus
Please enter your email address. We will send verification link for reset password.
--- https://mbaroi.in/mba/
If you’re a young MBA aspirant currently scrolling through the internet trying to find the top MBA program for yourself, then this article is for you! MBA Programs come in a wide variety of formats and choosing any one can be quite overwhelming. Especially if you’re determined to find the one that is most suitable for your interests. Therefore, in this article we take you behind the scenes and help you choose the MBA program that is best for you.
1- Year Full Time MBA Program
2- Year Full Time MBA Program
Executive MBA Program
Part-Time MBA Program
Online MBA Program
It is a common mistake to associate 1 Year MBA programs with Executive MBA programs. So, let’s start by clearing out the confusion. Well, for starters they are NOT the same. 1 year MBA programs are full time, with mandatory attendance, grueling schedule and targeted towards those who have comparatively less work ex whereas EMBA (Executive MBA) maybe part-time and is focused towards working professionals who already have some relevant experience in the corporate world. The syllabus designed for each of them are also different depending on their target candidates.
The Eligibility Criteria is as follows - Candidates must hold a bachelor’s degree in a relevant discipline with at least 55% marks. They must have appeared for a management entrance exam like CAT, XAT, GMAT and MAT.
The 1-year MBA programs are relatively new in India and are of 11-15 months depending on the college. If you’re a working professional or have previous work experience, then you're more likely to get accepted into this program. This is because it eases off the pressure to some extent. The general advantage of a 1-year full-time MBA degree over the other modes is that it’s more dynamic, intense and will keep you on your toes. It requires complete dedication, concentration, and commitment from the student for 1 year and ensures that the student goes out with a massive stock of knowledge fully equipped to take on the corporate world outside.
IIMB
IIMA
ISB Hyderabad
IIMC
SPJIMR Mumbai
XLRI Jamshedpur
Few years ago, lacking work experience probably would have been a major minus point for a MBA aspirant but today, major changes and reformation has occurred in favor of students over the years. So now, a student can jump right from earning their UG degrees to starting their MBA dream. So, if you’re a fresher wanting to sail towards the MBA life then you're more likely to be accepted into the 2-year program than the 1-year program. Students from diverse backgrounds are admitted into this program and do perfectly well despite having little to no work experience.
To be eligible for 2-year full time MBA Program candidates must have a bachelor’s degree in a relevant discipline with at least 55% score. They must have appeared for a management entrance exam like CAT, XAT, GMAT and MAT.
Out of 20, 14 IIMs are included in the top 100 MBA schools for 2-year full time program, but recently other MBA colleges have also been performing at par with the top IIMs.
Taxila Business School
IIM Indore
IIM Lucknow
If we compare a 1-Year Full Time MBA Program with a 2-Year Full Time MBA Program, then in some obvious areas the latter would win. For instance, inclusion of a summer internship program, comparatively less rigorous routine, more inclusive with the only con being that it is slightly more expensive. But the 1-year program certainly has too many cons like being extremely rigorous, no Internship program, no scope for networking and extreme pressure. But of course, the one-year program does give you the benefit of time.
Our advice would be, that if you’re a fresher, then the 2-year MBA program will be more suitable but if you’re a working professional with some relevant work experience then go ahead with the 1-year MBA program.
Let's start with the eligibility criteria. An Executive MBA candidate must have completed a bachelor’s degree in a relevant discipline with at least 55% marks. They must have appeared for a management entrance exam. Some management exams are CAT, XAT, GMAT and MAT. But here’s the twist in the tale
Candidates must hold a minimum work experience of 2-3 years.
IM Ahmedabad – ePGP
FMS – MBA Executive Program
ISB – PGPpro
IIM Kozhikode – Executive MBA (EMEP)
XLRI – Postgraduate Diploma in Management
SPJIMR – PGEMP
But why should one opt for an Executive MBA? Because it builds your skill set, makes you a better leader and enhances your business mind. It not only directly benefits you and your company but also your employees. It doesn’t matter if you’re working as a corporate geek or a startup freak, an executive MBA can give you the necessary set of skills to succeed in the corporate world.
The good news is that it is substantially easier to get into a part-time MBA program from a reputed institute than into a full-time MBA program. It does have some clear advantages over a full-time residential program. A part-time program ensures a steady income alongside acquiring a MBA degree. The course structure is comparatively lighter and gives you more breathing space. But of course, it is not without disadvantages. The duration is longer and lacks peer-to-peer interaction which is important for networking. We all know how the business world is all about networking!
So, if you’re a working professional who’s looking to get an MBA degree without compromising on your job then THIS is the best program for you!
These programs generally run year-round, with classes scheduled outside of normal business hours. You have the flexibility of choosing how many classes you take each semester.
Lock Step Programs
Self-Paced Programs
Self-paced programs are generally more flexible than the lock step programs. In the lock step programs you enter the program with a batch who learn with you.
The eligibility criteria for admission to a part-time MBA/PGDM course is graduation in any discipline from a recognized university with a minimum of 55% (depending on the college), and preferably a minimum of two-three years of work experience.
JBIMS Mumbai
IMT Ghaziabad
FMS Delhi
MDI Gurgaon
The first online MBA Program was started by Aspen University in 1987. Since then the popularity of this mode of MBA has grown rapidly over the years. Today as the world is ushered into the new age of Digital Learning, online MBA programs have a bright future ahead.
It allows you to explore the world of MBA right from the comfort of your home. Today over 60% of the MBA courses are offered online and over 46% of MBA aspirants opt for online MBA.
With a variety of course formats, including recorded lectures and live web conference courses conducted in virtual classrooms, online MBA programs are all about flexibility.
But this mode of MBA too has some clear disadvantages. The ROI of online MBA programs is 76% lower than on-campus MBA programs. Further a significant number of students with online degrees do not get qualified jobs and the cost of online MBA programs is only 20% less than on-campus programs. This mode lacks peer-to-peer interaction and scope for networking too.
Eligibility criteria – Candidates must hold a bachelor’s degree with a minimum of 50% score (depending on the college).
Sikkim Manipal University of Distance Education
ICFAI University Tripura
Indira Gandhi National Open	University (IGNOU) Delhi
Symbiosis Centre for Distance Learning
So, we would conclude by stating that the best MBA program ultimately depends on your requirements. If you’re looking climb the corporate ladder faster in your current company then a part-time or an online MBA program will work best for you. If you’re looking to build up your business skill set and enter the corporate world with more vigor then with 2-3+ years of work ex, an Executive MBA would be the right path for you. Finally, if you’re looking to start a new career or a full-time job then the 2-year full-time MBA programs are the way to go.
--- https://mbaroi.in/types-of-mba-specialization/
There are over numerous MBA/PGDM Specializations which are currently being offered at the top institutes in India. Yes! Tons of MBA programs for you to choose from. You probably won't even find that many different ice cream flavors in town. But hey, MBA is THE most sought-after
degree in the corporate world.
Now to qualify as a candidate applying for an MBA degree, one must have 50% aggregate marks. at the bachelors level. Further, the candidate must have appeared for at least one MBA entrance exam like CAT / XAT / MAT / GMAT / SNAP / CMAT / IIFT / IBSAT or any other university entrance exam. In the first
year of the MBA degree, the coursework of the students is the same for all streams. In the 2 nd year the students can choose their specialization depending on their interest.
While pursuing an MBA degree, a student is given a varied portfolio of electives to choose from in the domain of Finance, HR, Marketing and so on. After successful completion of the set of elective courses devoted to a certain area, the student is awarded an MBA with specialization in
that particular domain.
Traditionally, MBA in Finance, Marketing, HR, Logistics, Operations and Entrepreneurship are the most popular and in demand MBA Specializations. But we live in an ever-changing world where technology and continued innovations are opening newer opportunities in diverse fields.
Hence, to stay ahead of the curve, the MBA institutions have now started providing specializations in other rising fields like rural management, healthcare, tourism and hospitality, digital marketing and more.
Data will talk to you if you're willing to listen.
An MBA in Finance and you’ll be counting notes for the rest of your life.
The key to a successful business is product and brand marketing.
What if we tell you train and shape the managers of tomorrow?
Opportunities into agro-finance, production, distribution, and land management
A MBA Specialization in Logistics and Supply Chain Management...
All operations relating to the count and supply of merchandise will be...
Have an innovative business idea but don’t know how to go about it?
Did you know that over 60% of the Indian population is still living...
A healthcare Manager is responsible for facilitating healthcare services...
This booming million-dollar industry and a MBA specialization...
Introduce yourself to exciting world of travelling with companies worldwide.
If you want to get your foot in the exciting data science career door, a master’s in business analytics can help get you there.
Worldwide organizations are searching for graduates who can utilize information to take care of mind boggling issues, illuminate business system and speak with partners at any level. Study business analytics and you will foster an ideal blend of business and specialized abilities profoundly requested by planned bosses.
Spreadsheet Modelling
Accounting Analytics
Marketing Analytics
Financial Analytics
Business Statistics
Applied Regression
Principles of Management Science
Data Mining
Forecasting and Modelling
Business Analytics Strategy
An MBA in Finance and you'll be counting notes for the rest of your life. This field of Specialization is the most in demand and make no mistake, there’s some serious competition for a spot in this domain. It'll open plenty of opportunities in the field of corporate banking,
investment banking, financial planning, commercial banking, asset management, credit risk management and more. So, if you’re good with numbers and have a good analytical mind, also if you'll looking for the coolest white-collar job that pays for your expensive cocktails then look no
further. Get your degree in Finance and you'll have it all.
Corporate investment management
Commercial banking
Derivatives market
Corporate finance
Investments
Securities
Portfolios
International finance
Overview of global financial institutions, valuation, risk, return, diversification, international markets, and macroeconomics.
The key to a successful business is product and brand marketing. The marketing team constitutes one of the pillars holding a company. This makes it one of the most popular MBA Specializations out there.
Students with good interpersonal and communication skills, analytical ability and a creative state of mind are best suited for a specialization in marketing.
Consumer behavior
Brand strategy
Sales force management
International marketing
Digital marketing
What if we tell you train and shape the managers of tomorrow? Yes! That's exactly what they teach you in HR 101. You'll be hiring employees and training managers to help them churn their full potential.
Human Resource Management teaches employee performance assessment, workforce regulation, maintaining workforce standards, safety, health, and welfare assessment.
This premier field of Specialization is the most suitable for a career in workforce management and has immense career prospects because guess what? There’s literally no company on this planet that can function without a Human Resource Team.
A MBA Specialization in Logistics and Supply Chain Management or a related field operations management equips you to ensure the safe and efficient delivery of products to the consumers.
All operations relating to the count and supply of merchandise will be handled by you.
Irrespective of the size of the business, be it a logistic startup or the likes of Amazon, every company needs an efficient supply chain and to ensure that it functions properly, they need logistics managers.
Logistic Management
Business Environment and Ethics
Export Trade and Documentation
Merchandising
Organizational Behavior
Quality Management and Quality Techniques
Retail Marketing and CRM
Strategic Management
Have an innovative business idea but don’t know how to go about it? Then my friend, you need a degree in entrepreneurship management. In this era of cut throat competition having an entrepreneurial spirit is great but unfortunately that’s not enough to run a successful startup. This
MBA Specialization nurtures your entrepreneurial mind and equips with the skills needed to make your business successful.
Innovation & Creativity in Business
Financing the new venture
Strategies for Small Business Management
Corporate Culture & Intrapreneurship
Human Resource Management
Building Entrepreneurial Culture & Team
Managing a Growing Business
Inventory Management
Increasing Profitability
Investing Rewards
Did you know that over 60% of the Indian population is still living in the rural areas? Moreover, India being a predominantly agrarian economy, the agricultural and rural sector is a key area of focus for the country. This is exactly why this relatively newer stream of specialization has been
gaining popularity.
In Rural Management, students are taught to work on projects focusing on the systematic development and upliftment of the rural economy.
With this specialization students can expect to work with the Government, NABARD, RBI, NGOs, Grameen Banks etc.
What is the job of a healthcare manager? A healthcare Manager is responsible for facilitating healthcare services, checking the quality and budget of care in hospitals, clinics, and nursing
homes. Talk about a career that is selfless and financially rewarding!
A specialization in healthcare management can open work opportunities as a health administrator, clinical research manager, nursing home administrator, health information manager, hospital manager etc.
Managerial Communication
Healthcare Economics
Health Management
Fundamental of Healthcare Administration
Hospital Planning
Hospital Administration
Finance Management
This booming million-dollar industry and a MBA specialization in this domain has been gaining popularity in recent times. This Specialization best caters to the students interested in working
and managing top notch hotel chains, bars, resorts, hiking and trekking companies, airlines, and other hospitality businesses.
Aspirants planning to specialize in this area of management need to have a pleasant personality, calm and collected demeanor along with crisp communication skills while interacting with customers/clients.
Hotel & Catering Management
Eco Tourism
Fundamentals of Tourism and Travel
Marketing of Hospitality Service
Tourism and Travel
Leisure Management
Facility and Security Management
Event Management
Cultural Ethos
In case you are keen on how a business functions its system, the executives and tasks, then, at that point, a profession in management consultancy possibly for you. It is intended for working experts who are trying for fast profession movement in the Consulting practice.
Furnished with profound information on authoritative elements and technique execution, you will be helping individual organizations, state run administrations, and non-benefits smooth out tasks and foster a drawn out arrangement to amplify proficiency and effect.
Consulting
Business Strategy
Asset Valuation
Business Communication
Business Ethics
Supply Chain Management
Negotiations
Corporate Strategy
Innovation Management/Strategy
Financial Accounting
Quantitative Analysis
Operations Management
If you want to introduce yourselves to the exiting world of traveling and interacting with companies worldwide with so many opportunities to choose from, then a career and a degree in International Business is for you.
The center of International Business course is to guarantee that the students see how economies are associated and interlinked with one another in the present business climate.
With a developing economy, numerous organizations have workplaces and branches abroad and are searching for fresh recruits in the area, especially worldwide business vocations, like management and financial analytics, marketing managers, and executives.
Fundamentals of Marketing
Principles of Marketing
Behavioral Science
International Institutions and Trade Implications
Economic Environment
International Economics
Strategy in Emerging Markets
Legal Aspects of Business
Macro Economics
Indian, Global Trade and WTO
Fundamentals of International Management
Leadership Development
International Trade Logistics
International Marketing Management
Business Research Methods
Business Economics
Corporate Ethics and Governance
Guys, choosing a specialization is one of the most important decisions of your MBA journey. It depends on a variety of factors that you need to weigh in before taking the jump but most of all
on career goals, growth opportunity in the specialization field and scope for professional development.
So next time the interviewer asks where you see yourself in the next 5 years, take that question seriously because this is exactly what you should be asking yourself before choosing your MBA specialization.
IIMs: List, Establishment, Seats, Fees, Admission Process
Admission in IIMs without CAT
The Game of Marks Vs Percentile
Top MBA Colleges in India
IIM Placements Report 2024
IIMs/Non-IIMs Admission Predictor
Apply Now
Explore More
Upcoming MBA Entrance Exams
Top Colleges in Delhi NCR
Top Colleges in Indore
Top Colleges in Pune
Top Colleges in Mumbai
Top Colleges in Hyderabad
Top Colleges in Bangalore
Top Colleges in Ahmedabad
Featured Colleges
Please enter your email address or mobile number. We will send verification code for reset password.
--- https://mbaroi.in/sales/
MBA in Sales
What are Sales?
A new product has been launched. It is meant to be useful in the daily lives of men and women, but to be able to be useful in the daily lives, one needs to be aware of the product first. Now, one way is to launch an advertisement on television and newspaper, another way is to put up a
billboard, another hand over pamphlets to random people on the road but is there a guarantee that this will lead to success of the product? Guess Not!
Ask any company, be it a multinational company or a young startup, is having the best product in town the only criteria for making profit? I'm sure you'll hear a collective NO! This is because for any company to sell its product, the customers need to know the existence of the product, they
need to know its value addition in their lives and what sets it apart from its competitors.
Who makes it a reality?
The Marketing team does put the cherry on the top, but the Sales Team is the one in direct contact with the clients, making them understand the perks of the product and making instant sales.
Sales is an umbrella term for all activities involved in selling a product to the consumers of a business. Companies have big teams of dedicated sales professionals to directly interact with the customers and sell the product. They come up with plans to make people aware of the product
and their usefulness. All organizations have a well-functioning sales team broken down into separate segments focusing on different aspects of selling.
The region they're selling in
The product or service they're selling
The target customer
The primary goal of the Sales team is to reach out to the interested/ target customers. Now how do they find their target customers? In this age of global digital revolution, Sales is a profession that invites technological breakthroughs. They use it to screen from a pile of customers to pick
out the potential buyers. They target people who say, downloaded their brochure, has had a high response rate in their various online ads, is a regular viewer of their products, has visited their website many times in the last few weeks, have made visits to their office and so on.
Why is Sales important?
By now the reader must have a quite clear understanding of what is sales, what does a sales team do and how they do it. But the question of the hour is WHY do companies shell out millions of dollars for building an efficient sales team? WHY is Sales SO important?
In any organization, sales play a pivotal role in making a business successful. The primary role of the sales team is to bridge the gap between the needs of the potential customers and the products offered by the organization. They study the requirements in the form of a survey or a
questionnaire and come up with plans on how to build the product’s value to suit the need of the customer.
Reaching out to customers:- The best way to boost your brand reputation is to add that extra personal touch. The Sales team adds this exact personal touch in their interaction with the customers. Long lasting relationships
between your brand and the customer has the potential to boost your brand awareness through referrals, word of mouth and more. This is exactly why an organization needs an excellent sales team with powerful communication skills. A good Sales personnel not only closes the deal but
also converts a one-time customer into a life long one. Repeat customers push your brand forward. One of the most effective ways of customer retention is to conduct sales follow ups, ask for feedback, set up meetings with repeat customers and even go the extra mile to register and solve customer issues and complaints. That’s the road to customer retention and the sales team
carries out this task by acting as a bridge between the customers and the company.
Sales Conversions:- As mentioned before, a company's sales team acts as a bridge between the customers and the company. They feed the customer with that extra information that they need to make a
purchase, the information that the customers do not get from your advertisements, brochures, and such. For example, suppose you want to buy a car. The Car Sales personnel will ask you about your family size, your additional requirements, your budget, the color you would prefer
and so on. He/She will then analyze your needs and suggest the best available product. This direct interaction with the customer will go a long way in terms of building your reputation.
Product-Market Fit:- A key to increasing profits for any organization is to match the right products with the right market. This is done through the data provided by the Sales team. Sales Data helps make forecasts for the company which in turn increase its revenue and
profitability.
Sales strategy
Place of sales management in marketing
Organizational structures
Sales techniques
The selling processes
Buyer motivation
Consumer markets
Institutional markets
Sales recruitment
Why You Should Consider Sales as a Career?
If you have excellent communication skills and are looking for a career that has high income potential, flexible working hours and constant growth then look no further, Sales is a lucrative career for you!
Potential to earn big bucks:- In the Sales domain, the rule is as simple as it can get. The harder you work, the more you earn. Your income depends on your performance or effort. The greater number of clients you convert, the greater number of hours you put in,
the higher is your earning. Generally, there’s a weekly/monthly target that the Sales personnel needs to meet. If you overshoot the target, then you’re rewarded with fat checks, bonuses and even holiday trips.
Anyone can be sales personnel:- For a successful career in Sales, you don't have to have a degree in a particular stream or subject. You just need to have good communication skills and should be able to understand and interpret the customer psyche.
The following are some of the common sales jobs:-
Sales Development Rep
Accountant Executive
Outdoor Sales Personnel
Regional Sales Manager
Sales Engineer
Director of Sales
VP of Sales
No doubt for a company, Sales team is like a backbone on which the entire firm’s profit depends on. Marketing is important of course but we have seen it gone wrong if the product is not selling and company is just losing the money. Sales sweep in for these times, personal interactions,
approaching customers, discount offers, deals, all this tactic increases the selling of the product thus saving the company’s revenues and increasing profits.
Good luck finding the sales job that best fits your skills. No other career path will give you this much autonomy and high earning potential. You're your own boss!
Know more about  Career Options available after MBA or PGDM?
List of Top MBA Colleges in India For Sales
--- https://mbaroi.in/marketing/
Your common Oxford dictionary definition defines Marketing as "the action or business of promoting and selling products or services, including market research and advertising". Marketing is an umbrella term that includes strategies, tactics, and processes to create,
communicate, advertise, and sell products of value to generate a loyal consumer base. The idea is to devise creative ways to attract new clients and retain the old ones. A lot of hard work goes into it and a person skilled in communications can easily get the desired result.
This article is here to immerse you into the world of marketing and give you a detailed view on what is marketing, why we need it and how is marketing as a career path.
Now, Marketing has multitude of aspects. From catering to the students as one of the top lucrative career paths Marketing is also the key to success for any business, be it a roadside Dhaba or a Multinational company. Simply put, marketing is an intersection between
promotion and sales.
In 1960 Philip Kotler, the Father of Marketing introduced Marketing as a Discipline in Universities. He believed that Marketing is an essential tool of economics and that the demand for a product depends not only on the price but also on how the customer perceives
the product which requires advertising, promotion activities, a well-defined sales funnel, delivery and distribution channels. Philip Kotler defined marketing as "the science and art of exploring, creating, and delivering value to satisfy the needs of a target market at a
profit".
Last but not the least, Marketing is defined by its 4 P's – Product, Price, Place and Promotion. A Product can be an idea, a good or a service. Price is the amount that a customer pays to acquire a product. Place or Distribution refers to the logistics channel. It is the act of
delivering products to the customers. Finally, Promotion of the product is the key item of marketing. It involves advertising the product through sale, coupons, billboard ads, pamphlets, newspaper advertisement and so on.
A successful business stems from a strong marketing plan. But let's deep dive into the reasons as to why Marketing is SO important.
Customer Education:- Whether you are the CEO of a young startup or a multi-billion dollar company, you and your team know the ins and outs of your product but how do you expect your customers to know how your product adds value to their
lives? One of the basic roles of marketing is to educate your customer about your product. Marketing is at the center of value proposition and if your goal is educating your customers then rest assured you can rely on Marketing to do it for you in a
creative and fun way. Emails and social media posts showcasing new releases and alerting customers to an upcoming sale,online business listings that help local consumers find you, phone calls to stay in touch with your customers and of course advertising are a few examples of how you can use marketing to build the kind of
awareness that generates revenue.
Building Customer Relationships:- Much of the 90s involved face-to-face or in - person interaction with the customer but how do you continue to engage with your customers even after they’ve walked out of your store or how do you keep in touch
with them, how do you keep track of your interested clients and how do you keep them engaged? The answer is Marketing. Marketing builds customer relationships and ensures that your client remembers your product. Sending follow-up emails, replying to customers on social media handles, and mailing out postcards with special offers,
sale or information on new services are just a few of the ways that marketing can help you stay in touch with your target audience.
Brand Awareness:- The very first step of Marketing is brand awareness. Why is it important? Simply put, to make sure your customers remember you. It forms the
foundation of acquiring customers. Brand Awareness is done so that the customers can recognize and recall your brand. Remember Mentos? This simple candy brand made such a catchy and powerful advertising jingle that the 90s kids can hum the tune
today even after 15 years from when it aired first time on television. THAT is the power of Marketing. From the primary colors associated with your brand and the logo to your delivery channel, everything is brand awareness.
Informed Decisions:- Marketing helps your management team make informed decisions. Every company needs to answer some key questions – what to produce, how much to produce, when to produce and for whom to produce. This is where
Marketing steps in. It provides relevant customer insights that help the company answer the above questions. Marketing acts as a direct link between the company and its customers.
Marketing is a field that thrives on innovation, modern ways of branding, latest technology, and constant change. It is one of the career choices that ensure that the student after entering the job market, gets a varied experience, learns multiple skills, and even takes home a hefty
pay. This career choice fosters creativity.
But is marketing the right career choice for you? If you’re a creative person who likes to crunch data, analyze consumer behavior, and has excellent communication skills then 10/10 you'll make a great marketing manager.
Business to Business (B2B) Marketing
Consumer Behavior
Global Marketing Techniques
Marketing Research
Marketing Strategy and Management
Product Management
Retail and Sales Management
Logistical Strategies
Economics
Corporations and Financing
Now what does a marketing professional do? It’s the marketing professional's job to create, manage, and boost brands. A marketing professional is at the helm of branding and communications. It is the marketing team's job to understand and convey the customer's
preferences, likes and dislikes to the company to further refine the product and the brand.
Market Research
Brand Management
Content Creation
Social Media Manager
Media Buyer
Influencer Marketing Manager
Promotions
Public Relations
This article tried to cover the basics of marketing and we hope you've got a clear idea about it. Marketing is not a magic word or a technique, to acquire loyal customers, one needs to focus on their product or idea that they are selling. If your product isn’t worthy of consumers
expectation, no matter how much you advertise it through different sources or appoint people to try to talk about it on public platform, it will fall flat. So, a piece of advice would be to lay the foundation strong and then reap the benefits.
Introduction to marketing
The marketing processes
Market information system
Consumer behaviour
Business buyer behaviour
Market segmentation and targeting
Product management strategy
Branding strategy
Pricing
Customer relationship
--- https://mbaroi.in/finance/
MBA in Finance
In layman terms, Finance is simply the handling of money. Of course, in modern times, this has gained importance with the multiple transactions happening every millisecond around the
world. From low valued locality-based transactions that you make with your local grocer to the high valued transactions ranging from millions to billions that happen at the multinational level between banks and corporations, Finance covers all. With growing technology, the
frequency of these transactions has only multiplied exponentially in the recent years. Along with this, the growth of Financial Engineering and the innovations of various financial instruments and derivatives as a means of investment and hedging have only made Finance a
glamourous path for many. Needless to say, an MBA in Finance as a study stream is highly in demand due to these reasons.
The first step of any degree would be to cover the bases of the students, and hence the first few subjects that will form the foundation of an MBA in Finance will be:
Accountancy and Financial Statement Analysis:- This teaches the student how to understand the language of the businesses, that is, their balance sheets and financial statements. Understanding these is the key to recognizing a healthy firm and finding
the weak spots of a sick firm. Deeper knowledge of this allows the students to deduce and strategize accurately once they start practising professionally.
Microeconomics, and Macroeconomics:- These two subjects are the most important, as it teaches the student how to deal with the external factors that affect businesses, whether it be the domestic or global economy. Macroeconomics focuses on the
'external factors' part, such as inflation or the shocks that an economy is subjected to, while Microeconomics focuses on the decision-making aspect of firms. Combine these two and you get the perfect combination of how to insulate and operate a
business reasonably.
Statistics:- The understanding of this subject is almost necessary in the field of Finance as statistical analysis has called shotgun. Statistical analysis allows for better prediction and market valuation and takes a leading role when it comes to the
development of the new financial instruments we mentioned earlier.
Once the bases of a student are covered, they are introduced to more challenging subjects that deal with the finer details of Finance. Some of them are as follows:
Security Analysis & Portfolio Management:- Security valuation and the analysis of its performance in the stock market form the fundamental part of a degree in Finance. Identifying the price and return patterns of a stock through technical
analysis after carrying out a fundamental analysis on it reveals a lot about the operating of the firm and the people’s perception of it. Portfolio Management deals with the efficient handling of the various kinds of investments that an entity holds in
a portfolio and minimizing the risk while simultaneously maximising the return for the firm.
Corporate Finance:- This course aims to teach students capital budgeting techniques, such as using Net Present Value versus Internal Rate of Return as a valuation method for selecting prospective projects, calculating cashflows from
investments made and projects undertaken by a firm, and thereby determine the profitability of the financing decision. Its knowledge allows the students to manage the smooth functioning of the firm, as short-term and long-term financing techniques
along with forecasting and planning of working capital form the core of the subject.
Financial Institutions, Markets, & Regulations:- In order to work in the field of Finance professionally, one needs to be aware of the environment in which major financing activities take place. Knowing the rules and regulations that govern the
markets allows one to work ethically and prevent any ill consequences. This will also allow students to develop critical skills to assess the relevance of principles of finance to real world situations. This is an essential background for security analysis
and decision making.
Financial Instruments:- The financial instruments are the objects which are exchanged during financial transaction. While the other courses focused on the meaning and consequences of these transactions and the environment in which these
transactions take place, a course on financial instruments (which can be divided into several other courses as there are many different kinds of instruments such as financial derivatives, equity, etc.) focuses on the items that yield the returns. A good
knowledge of how various instruments operate is the key to portfolio management, hedge fund management, and investment management. This usually covers instruments such as forward contracts, futures contracts, swaps, options, commodity
derivatives amongst others.
International Finance:- With the rise of globalization, multinational entities are involved in the same transaction. With regulations varying from country to country, there are international bodies which manage the rules and regulations of such
international transactions and coordinate them. An understanding of the key features of the foreign exchange market, the market through which most of these transactions take place, is almost necessary if one wishes to work in the corporate world. This
subject gives the key understanding of foreign exchange markets, and the risks associated to it, along with methods of how to mitigate those risks using the financial instruments we discussed above.
Following this, there are various optional courses that a student may choose in accordance with the trajectory they wish to undertake in their professional lives.
Commercial Banking
Financial Risk Management
Behavioural Finance
Auditing
Global Marketing
This list of elective subjects is non-exhaustive and varies from institute to institute. One must always go through the syllabus of the institute they wish to study at and decide for themselves whether the course structure fits well with their requirements or not.
A degree of MBA in Finance opens the golden gate for promising careers and handsome pay packet. Some even bag high profile positions and make a good use of the career to build a
social status which is very important in today’s world. Career with an MBA in Finance gives you wings to fly high in the market and bag any opportunity you desire because you will be getting a lot of good chances.
Banker
Hedge Fund Manager
Investment Manager
Treasury
Risk Analyst
Stock Market Expert
I hope this article gives you a clear view about an MBA in Finance and the dealings of it. Before taking any step, weigh in all the pros and cons of it and then go for it as a career option.
--- https://mbaroi.in/business-analytics/
MBA in Business Analytics
In a world where technology is growing rapidly and innovations are happening daily, we find ourselves strapped with huge amounts of data, popularly known as 'big data' these days. This data is basically useless if one does not know how to make sense of it. While machines help
us in maintaining this data and providing a numerical analysis of it, they are unable to provide an economical interpretation of it and its applications in various lines of business. This is where humans come into play, where they use their machine learning and reasoning
skills to give meaning to these numbers. Business Analytics is a field that deals with this.
Business Analytics allows businesses to make use of these machine learning technologies and various statistical methods associated to it to optimise their strategies and improve their decision making with the new insights they gain from analysing the data.
Due to its growing popularity, thanks to the glamour of the word ‘big data’, various universities and institutions are now providing certification courses in this field. Business Analytics is no longer just limited to the professionals involved in this field but has now been
made widely available for newcomers and students alike. These courses are well designed, intended to help even those who have no prior programming skills. Even professionals from other related fields are now testing the waters by trying out these courses to see whether it
suits them well or not, and further expand their career. All this demand has made an MBA in Business Analytics one of the most sought-after courses globally.
Helps studying the consumer consumption patterns, thereby allowing better predictions for future consumption behaviour
Supply side analytics such as Operating, and Accounting Analytics helps in optimising the cost structure of the business and predict future financial behaviour of the firm itself
Makes managerial tasks easier by using Employee Analytics
Allows businesses to strategize efficiently and make the best data-driven decisions suitable for them
Helps the firms in managing the various risks associated to their business by helping them gain essential business insights which they might overlook otherwise
Management Related Topics:- It comprises of studying and understanding business organizations. It provides specific knowledge in the areas of strategy making, business policies, communication, along with management and managerial skills.
Principles of Management
Entrepreneurship
Economics for Business Decisions (mainly composed of Microeconomics)
Organizational Behaviour
Accounting and Finance Related Topics:- It focuses on the concepts of numbers. It teaches how to read the balance sheets and find out the good and bad from it. It also teaches how to use these numbers for the maximum benefit of the organization.
Accounting for Analytics
IFRS & Financial Statement Analysis
Security Analysis and Portfolio Management
Financial Derivatives and Investment Analysis
Risk Management
Statistics and Analytics Related Topics:- It's focus is how to extract useful from the number in the data and predict future behaviour of the firm and the consumer with precision and accuracy.
Statistical Analysis with Probability Models
Basic Econometrics
Financial Econometrics with Time Series Analysis
Decision and Risk Analytics
Prescriptive Analytics
Big Data Analytics
Web Analytics
Data Analytics Skills and Topics:- This teaches the practical use of what has been done in theory and how to interpret the result for maximum and long-term benefits.
Marketing Metrics
Business Analytics using MS-Excel
Business Research using MS-Excel and SPSS
Business Forecasting using R
Optimization Techniques using MS-Excel
Data Warehousing using R
Time Series Analysis with MS-Excel and R
Cloud Computing
Data Scientist
Quantitative Analyst and Modeler
Data Business Analyst
Business Analyst Consultant
--- https://mbaroi.in/human-resource/
MBA in Human Resource
It is the end of a business year; everybody has been given a task to write appraisal. Everyone is thinking how to make it appealing, they’re so tensed, struggling with words, writing, re-writing, a never-ending cycle. Amidst all this chaos, there’s only one person who sits in
his/her office, sipping coffee and relaxing, that person is called an HR.
The genie in a bottle, whose job is to observe quietly all year long and then come out of its lamp and do the sweeping.
Lucky isn't it? You can be this lucky too if you choose Human Resource Management.
Human resource management (HRM) is the method of employing, training, and developing, compensating people. It also comes up with strategies to retain people so that the useful ones don’t leave the company. Over the years, the job of an HR has undergone severe change,
initially it used to be sending birthday gifts or cards to every employees, arranging office outings, planning activities or games, processing payroll, and making sure forms are filled out. Now, HR has moved ahead of this, not completely though, they still do all of this but
now also overlooks who stays in the company and who doesn’t, who has the calibre and who is a dark horse. They now have a say in the company’s plan of hiring people, they chalk out the initial selection procedure, they do the first round of interviews, they do the initial
sweeping, runs a background check, and send in the best one for further interview.
It is important because a company is divided into several sections, not everyone can look at everything. You can’t expect a chairperson or a CEO to the initial round of interviews for an assistant or an associate. They do the high-level jobs, so does that mean there’s no hiring for
associates or assistants? Nothing like that, here comes in the HR. HR is supposed to be aware of the requirements of the company, staff wise, do they need more people, do they need to fire some people, HR keeps an eye on this. If the company requires more people, they give
out an advertisement on several sectors and wait for the applicants. They then do the initial interviews before sending them to managers for final one. Once chosen, they make sure to collect all the important documents of the applicant and file them, they then put them on a
payroll and make sure they get paid. It is a tasking job.
Other than administrative work, HR is also engaged into motivating people by including fun activities, games, company outings etc. They act as an agony aunt and must be secretive about it. They must be aware of the laws supporting the employees. They also make sure
every employee gets a birthday card, and no employee is unaware of self-appraisal time.
During the year end, they again have a bunch of appraisal to review before they finally submit their report and suggestions about who gets the cake (we mean pay raise) and who gets to leave, if any.
HR has several roles in the company, and we have lined up a few for you.
Employment
People are required in a company to do the job. No matter how forward the world becomes, humans are irreplaceable. Which is why, employment is the biggest task of the HR. Employment includes:
Creating a plan:- This plan includes the question how many people they need to hire based on the cost.
Creating atmosphere of multiculturalism at work:- Multiculturism is increasing day by day as there are people from different backgrounds working in a company.
Recruitment:- This means they must look for people to fill out the positions at the company.
Selection:- This includes interviewing and selecting the suitable person. Salary negotiations also fall in this. After this, they will be undergo training and development and finally start
their tenure.
Development of Workplace Policies
Companies must ensure that their fairness and equality in the workplace, hence they need to develop policies for that. HR is responsible to develop these policies. They must see the need of a policy, think, develop, seek opinions on the policy, write, then tell the policy to the
employee. The policies should affect all the departments of the workplace. Some of the policies include, Dress Code, Time off policy, Discipline, Internet usage, Work ethics, etc.
Preserving
Preserving means motivating employees so that they stay with the company. Pay is of course a major factor when it comes to withholding an employee but there are other factors as well such as, team challenges, challenges with manager, workplace culture and environment,
problems with the job they are performing.
Compensation and Benefits
HR must make sure that the compensation being given to the employees are fair and meet the standard and is able to retain the employees. Also, they need to make sure that the pay is
balance with the job they are performing, this also includes if an employee is with the company for 20 years, their compensation would be higher than a five year old employees. Compensations include, salary, insurance, medical, tuition fees, vacation, sick leave, etc.
Training and Development
As soon as they hire a new employee, they need to make sure he/she is well versed with their role in the firm. HR plans training and development programs for the new employees so that they learn about their job and in result perform well which is for the benefit of the company.
Every employee gets a training period during which they are usually given mock work. Training also builds confidence and motivates the employees to do well. Training includes, building confidence, work ethic, communication skills etc.
HR As a Career
Being an HR is mostly a dream for many management students. Be aware it is not a cakewalk though. An HR must give many hours to the company, you might think they live life king size, but they also work for it. An HR gets paid well. Initially it might be less but there are
chances of pay increase. An HR is a good job overall if you’re good at administrative and managerial work. Also, you need to be a people’s person because HR must be surrounded by people, the foundation of their entire work is people. So that means you cannot just bark at
them when you feel like, an HR must maintain his cool even in the toughest time. Employees mentality surrounds on getting paid on time for all the hard work they are doing and getting appreciation for it, an HR has to make sure that no unnecessary delay happens in the salary
and should also time and again pat his employee's back.
Topics Covered
Strategic HRM
Leadership and Ethics
Cross Cultural HRM
Analytics and Digital HR
Managerial Economics
Industrial Psychology
Portfolio Management
This sums up our HR article, we hope it has given you some idea about the job of an HR. Weigh in all the pros and cons and select the HR career path if you wish.
--- https://mbaroi.in/education-loan/
Home
Courses
We arrange Education loans from leading Indian banks to support students in accomplishing their academic goals. Interest rates for an education loan with a payback term of up to 15 years start at 6.60 percent per year. Education loans are available for both in-country and out-of-country higher education.
These loans are for undergraduate and Post Graduate professional courses in both Indian and overseas colleges. Although the eligibility for an education loan will be determined by the banker.
Education Loan Eligibility
Indian citizens
Non-Indian Residents (NRIs)
Overseas Citizens of India (OCI)
Persons of Indian Origin (PIOs)
Students born to Indian parents abroad and wish to study in India
Undergraduate programs
Postgraduate programs
Doctoral courses and PhDs
Certificate courses with 6 months or longer duration
Job-oriented courses
Technical/diploma/professional courses
Recognized institutions and government colleges
Private institutes aided by government
Professional institutions
International colleges and universities
Collateral-free loans up to Rs.15 lakh from leading lenders
Collateral-free loans up to Rs.50 lakh for select courses/institutions from select lenders
With collateral- Residential or commercial property or plot, fixed deposits, insurance, as per lender’s choice up to Rs.1 crore
List of Courses that are covered under an Education loan
Graduation and Post-Graduation courses (technical/professional/diploma) conducted by approved universities or colleges under UGC/IMC/AICTE/government.
Regular degree/diploma courses administered by autonomous institutions such as IIM/IIT, etc.
Regular degree or diploma courses such as pilot training, aeronautical, shipping, and more approved by the Director-General of Civil Aviation/Shipping/other regulatory authority.
Job oriented courses (professional/technical) for Graduation/Post Graduation/Diploma such as MBA/MCA/MS offered by reputed educational institutions, courses conducted by the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (CIMA) – London or Certified Public Accountant (CPA) – USA.
Loans for skill development.
Job oriented courses (professional/technical) for Graduation/Post Graduation/Diploma such as MBA/MCA/MS, etc. offered by reputable institutions.
Courses conducted by CIMA and CPA.
List of Expenses Covered in Education Loan
Tuition fees
Hostel fees
Travel expenses passage money for students studying abroad
Insurance premium
Cost of books/equipment/instruments/uniform
Examination/laboratory/library fees
Cost of a computer/laptop required for course completion
Caution deposit, building fund/refundable deposit supported by institution bills/receipts
Any other expense required to complete the course such as study tours/thesis/project work
Features & Benefits of Study Loan
Loan financing up to Rs.1 crore available.
Loan repayment tenure up to 15 years.
Get Education loans for studies in India and abroad.
Some lenders offer loan disbursal before applying for a Visa.
Door-step service to collect required documents.
Children of the bank’s employees enjoy preferential rates at several banks.
Certain banks offer concessional interest rates to female students.
Enjoy a moratorium period of up to 1 year after course completion. During this period, you do not have to make payments on the loan.
Enjoy tax benefits up to 8 years on the interest paid.
Tax Benefits on Education Loan
In accordance with Section 80E of the Income Tax Act of 1961, you can deduct the interest you pay on your student loans. It is available exclusively to students for higher education and only available to individual borrowers. The deduction is applicable to all fields of study, both in India and abroad. It applies to vocational and conventional courses.
Please keep in mind that the tax deduction is only applicable to the interest portion of the EMI, not at the principal amount. However, there is no upper limit set on the number of times you can claim this benefit. To qualify for this benefit, you must obtain a statement from your bank or financial institution segregating your principal and interest.
This benefit is available for 8 years from the date you began repayment or until the interest component of your loan is paid off, whichever comes first.
List of Documents Required for Education Loan
Here is an indicative list of documents that most lenders ask:
Admission letter from the educational institution
Mark sheets (previous education – school/college)
Age proof
ID proof
Address proof
Signature proof
Salary slips
Recent bank account statements
ITR with the income computation
Audited balance sheet
Recent bank statements
Proof of turnover (service tax return/sales receipt)
Completed application form with signature
Latest passport size photographs
Appropriate Visa for studies abroad
***Document charges may be levied by the lender.
How to Apply for Education Loan
There are several ways of applying for a student loan:
There are two ways of applying online. The first is a straightforward application form that you will fill out online, attach the necessary documents, and submit the form.
The second is where you apply by providing all the requested details and the lender will then get in touch with you to discuss the terms of the loan before proceeding with the application.
Education Loan Repayment Process
The loan repayment period usually starts 24 months after completing your course or when you get a job, whichever occurs first. Different lenders provide different moratorium periods to applicants to repay the loan. You will have to repay your loan through EMIs.
Here are the different modes of repayments usually available:
Internet Banking - Pay online through the lender’s website or mobile app.
Cheque – Drop a cheque at any of the branches.
Direct debit – Set up recurring payments for your EMI to be directly debite from your bank account on the payment due date.
Demand Draft – Pay through a DD.
The preferred method of repayment varies between lenders. Therefore, it is advisable to check with your lender when taking the loan.
Moratorium period: In the case of education loans, the beneficiaries will be able to start paying off the loan after the completion of the educational course or after successful employment.
Part-payment of education loans: The beneficiaries of education loans will be allowed to make part payments towards their loans. As an applicant, you can pay back a lump sum amount to make part repayment of the loan.
Pre-payment of education loan: If an applicant can manage the funds for the pre-payment of the loan amount, he or she will be able to do the same. However, it should be kept in mind that this might invite a processing fee.
If money is the only obstacle in your way from achieving your professional goals, then consider taking an education or student loan to fulfill your goals. You can get collateral-free goals wherein you need not provide any security to the lender and your repayments will not start immediately after graduation.
Frequently Asked Questions
No, usually education loans for courses in India do not offer the same amount as for comparable level courses abroad. Education loans offer higher amounts for courses abroad as fees and other expenses may be higher there than for courses in India (which also depends on the educational institution).
Yes! Practically all education loans from banks and other lenders are collateral-free till a certain amount, there after collateral which can be fixed deposits, property, shares, bonds, etc. may be required. However, you can still avail of an education loan without having to give any collateral. This can be achieved through the Credit Guarantee Fund for Education Loan (CGFEL) Schemes which cover a collateral-free loan of up to Rs.7.5 lakh. This is only for education loans dispersed under the Model Education Loan Scheme of the Indian Banks’ Association (IBA). To avail of this, you have to apply for an education loan under this scheme through a scheduled commercial bank. You don’t need to provide security or collateral for amounts of up to Rs.7.5 lakh but anything above that will require collateral.
For courses abroad, education loans are typically paid directly to the educational institution in the local currency of that country.
The moratorium period on education loans differs from lender to lender. However, it is usually until the borrower gets employed or for up to 2 years of the course being completed, whichever is earlier. If you choose to take a sabbatical and want an extension of your moratorium, it would depend on the bank whether to grant it or not, so it is best to have a discussion about this with the lender.
One of the eligibility criteria for education loans that are offered by banks and other financial institutions in India is that the individual should be an Indian national. This means that any student who is a citizen of India can apply for and avail of an education loan from a lender in the country. Collateral or documents which can be taken as security should be those that are enforceable in India.
Lenders consider the following factors when approving a loan: • The course and institute you choose • The amount you need • Your academic performance • Repayment capacity of your family • Family assets • Annual income
In case you choose to discontinue the course mid-way, you must start repaying the loan immediately after getting a job.
Yes, you can move your education loan from one bank to another. However, your current bank might charge a refinance fee. Therefore, it is important to consider all factors of the existing bank and the new bank before moving the loan.
Yes, education loans cover 100% of the education expenses. However, full coverage may only be provided for expenses under a certain limit. Lenders have a margin if the expenses go above the limit.
Some of the additional expenses covered by education loans are: • Hostel fees • Exam fees, laboratory and library fees • Cost of books, uniforms, projects, etc. • Travel expenses for overseas education • Deposits required by the educational institute
--- https://mbaroi.in/about-cat-exam/
About Cat Exam
About CAT Exam
About
Date & Timings
CAT Admit Card
Mock Test
CAT Answer Key
WAT-PI
CAT Exam 2025 will be conducted on November 30, 2025. Notification for this year's CAT exam will be releasing on 28th July and on the 01 August, 2025, the registration will be starting. Last year 2,55,000 students registered for the CAT exam, which is expected to increase this year. Candidates can apply for the CAT till the 20, September 2025. 21 IIMs spread across country accept admission through CAT along with many prestigious business schools of India. CAT 2025 will be conducted and managed by IIM Calcutta and all the information will be available from their end only. Since the number of applicants increases the difficulty level of the exam will also increase this year.
What is CAT Exam?
CAT is Common Admission Test or CAT is a computer-based aptitude test. It is an aptitude exam designed to take admission to management courses offered by some top management institutes in India. It is one of the most renowned and toughest entrance exams in India. CAT Exam is considered one of the major events of management studies in India. Every year this exam is scheduled on the last Sunday of November and this year the exam of CAT will be conducted on Nov. 30, 2025 . In total, more than 2,50,000 candidates appear every year in the exam and only the top 7200  get the chance of studying in IIMs. Not only IIMs but over 1400 Business Schools in India   consider the result of this exam for admission.
The selection criteria for admission through this entrance exam are different for each institute. Each of the IIMs or any participating institute has its own guidelines for accepting admission through CAT. CAT is conducted by one of the IIMs and in 2025 IIM Calcutta will be the host this time. The notification about the CAT 2025 will be releasing on 28th July, 2025  . CAT is considered the most prestigious admission test for PGP/PGDM/MBA and similar management courses offered by IIMs and non-IIMs colleges in India. There are  21 IIMs in India that offer various management courses for admission.
Get Latest CAT Exam Updates
Important Information of CAT 2025 Exam
Registration of CAT Examination 2025
CAT Registration for the 2025 is starting from 01 August, 2025  , and the registration window will remain open till 20 September, 2025 . In order to fill up, the CAT application form candidates need to register themselves for the exam. The process of CAT registration is completely online and the application form will be available on the official IIM website.
CAT Exam Eligibility
The candidate must satisfy the following conditions for CAT Eligibility:
The candidate should have a graduation degree of minimum three-year duration, having not less than 50% marks, 45% in case of Scheduled Caste (SC), Scheduled Tribe (ST), and Persons with Disability (PWD) /Differently Abled (DA).
The graduation degree should have been granted by any of the universities formed by an act of the parliament or assembly (central or state statutory body in India) or other educational establishments constructed by an act of Parliament or announced to be deliberated as a university under Section 3 of the UGC Act, 1956, or retain an equal qualification documented by the Ministry of Education, Govt. of India.
Candidates appearing for the final year of graduation degree/equivalent qualification examination and the individuals who have finished degree requisites and are expecting results can also apply for cat exam. On selection, such students will be permitted to join the program provisionally, and they need to present a certificate by June 30, from the principal/registrar of their college/institute mentioning that the student has finished all the requirements for acquiring a four-year or three-year degree.
CAT Exam Syllabus
The syllabus of the exam is divided into three major sections.
VARC (Verbal Ability & Reading Comprehension) - Reading Comprehension, Para Summary,  Odd One Out, Para Jumbles
DILR (Data Interpretation& Logical Reasoning) - Binary Logic, Arrangements, Team Formation, Bar Graph, Radar Chart, Column Graph, Routes and Network, Bubble Chart, Data Caselets - Reasoning-Based DI, Ven Diagram, Pie chart, tables
QA (Quantitative Ability) - Number System, Airthmetic, Algebra, Geometry, Mensuration, Morden Mathematics
Exam Pattern and Marking Scheme for CAT Exam 2025
The duration of this entrance exam is 2 hours (120 minutes ) and overall 66 questions were asked in last year examination. It is an MCQ-based exam conducted in an online mode. For every right answer, the candidate will get 3 marks and 1 mark is deducted for every wrong answer. Extra 13 minutes will be provided to PWD applicants in each section to complete their exam.
CAT Cut-off
The cutoff of CAT is declared by the Institute itself based on many factors like seat availability, courses applied, number of applications, exam level, and number of candidates. Generally, the top IIMs like IIM Ahmedabad, IIM Bangalore, or IIM Calcutta have a very high cutoff between  99 to 100 percentile. On the other hand, the Baby IIMs or new IIMs have a lower CAT cutoff between 87 to 93.  Also, all the institutes declare two cutoffs one is a qualifying cutoff and the other is a final cutoff.
Why MBA Aspirants Must Appear For CAT?
The main reason why MBA aspirants should appear for this exam is to get admission to top prestigious colleges like IIMs, IITs, FMS, IMT, etc. These top institutes not only provide the best management programs for students but also offer placements into top companies with high salary packages. These colleges are considered the Best ROI colleges in India. Admission to these colleges can open the door to a bright future and inspiring life for them. Most importantly this exam will teach them how to handle pressure and competition.
CAT Previous Year Papers
Time Management Tips For CAT
What to do One Night Before CAT?
Group Discussion Topics
CAT Cut Off Percentiles for IIMs
Total Number of Seats in IIMs 2024
Predict College based on CAT Cutoffs
What if your CAT Score is low?
What is the difference between MAT and CAT exams?
Few of NON IIMs accepting CAT score
Faculty of Management Studies (FMS), University of Delhi
Indian School of Business, Hyderabad
Indian Institute of Foreign Trade (IIFT)
Jamnalal Bajaj Institute of Management Studies (JBIMS)
National Institute of Industrial Engineering (NITIE)
S.P. Jain Institute of Management & Research (SPJIMR)
XLRI Xavier School of Management (XLRI)
TAXILA - Jaipur
Indian Institute of Management Indore (IIMI)
MDI GURGAON
FAQs Regarding CAT 2025  Exam
Que.  What is the Full Form of  CAT?
Ans.  The full name for CAT in Common Admission Test. It is conducted for the admission in management courses offered by various Top MBA colleges in India.
Que.  What is CAT Exam?
Ans.  CAT is the computer-based skill assessment test for the admission process into top Business schools in India. It is conducted every year in the month of November.
Que. What is the Difficulty level of the CAT?
Ans. The difficulty level of the exam is moderate to high. Every Section in the exam carries equal difficulty. It gives more emphasis on evaluating the aptitude-related skills of the candidates.
Que. What is the exam Date of CAT?
Ans. CAT 2025 exam date is 30, November 2025. CAT result will be declared in second week of January 2025 by IIM Kozhikode.
Que. What is the CAT cutoff last year?
Ans.  Last year’s cutoff for the general students is 99 to 100 percentile for IIMs. Cut off for the aspirants of a reserved category is around 97 to 98 percentile. And other colleges have their own criteria for admission through this exam cutoff. Check out the list of non-iim Colleges accepting cat cut off for MBA admission.
Que.  What is the CAT 2025 fees?
Ans. The fees of the CAT application form is 2500/- INR for the general category and 1250/- INR for SC, ST, and OBC students.
Que. Who can apply for the CAT?
Ans. A person with a minimum of 50% marks in the graduation degree (For general and OBC) and 45 % for SC-ST caste is eligible for the exam.
--- https://mbaroi.in/entrance-exam-accepting-colleges/cat/
Top 100 MBA colleges in India Accepting CAT Score
Rankings
This Top 100 MBA Colleges in India list is lot  more important for aspirants due to the fact that it is mandatory for them to
choose the   Top MBA course and the Best MBA Colleges for a good future. The
management institute from where you take education has a wide impact in one’s career.
Here, IIRF rankings are being considered due to the very relevant parameters it
emphasizes for arriving at a list.
The references from this list of top 100 B-schools in India will help
students understand what MBA colleges are demonstrating, focusing and also their ability to
transform their students’ careers. Now that there is an emerging trend after covid times, HR
is surely looking to hire talent that is specialized in management skills. Here every important
factor that effects a candidate’s decision is given focus e.g. the reputation of business
school, viewpoint of employers etc.
Here is the list of Top 100 MBA Colleges in India Accepting CAT:
The above list of best 100 MBA Colleges of India present an array of Top MBA Colleges of India. These colleges give students the liberty to choose based on their choices
and priorities. An example in this league is ‘Taxila’s Business school’ that is placed in top
list for opening new career opportunities also among other factors. The list also includes a
new kinship of emerging management institutions with much more crisp programs that
sharpen managerial skills of students for every situation. With the given rankings above,
you may now select right business schools that are most suitable MBA College that are in
sync with your future plans.
Since this is not a cheap decision, the above Top 100 MBA Colleges in India rankings prove helpful
and make sure that the parameters of the survey are relevant to your goals also. While the
average salaries are still the best indicators of a likely career progression, There are factors
like desirability of working for certain company or sectors; that may rule the minds of
candidates, changing their preferences to select Top MBA College in India. It is suggested that the contenders ensure for
themselves the right place and right course also to set their beginnings right!
Most Common MBA Interview Questions Asked in Personal Interview
MBA Fees in India: Know the course fees of Top MBA Colleges
20+ Group Discussion (GD) Topics 2024
Top MBA Entrance Exam in India
What Are The Career Options After MBA or PGDM?
MBA VS PGDM
How To Select The Top MBA College?
Top Colleges in Jaipur
Looking For Your Best Program? You Are At Right Platform
--- https://mbaroi.in/cat-exam-date/
CAT 2025 Dates
About CAT Exam Date 2025
CAT 2025 official notification is released by the IIM Kozhikode on 28th July 2025. As per the official document the CAT 2025 registration is starting from 01 August, 2025 and will close on 20th September, 2025. Like every year CAT 2025 exam will be held on the last Sunday of November which is 24th November 2025. As per the official notification CAT 2025 result will be declared in Second week of January 2025. Admit cards will be available for download from the 05th November to the 24th of November.
Important Dates of CAT 2025
IIM Calcutta
SC, ST and PwD category candidates =  1250/-
All other categories =  2500/-
Learn More About   Group Discussion Topics
CAT 2025 Exam will be held in three slots – Morning, Afternoon & Evening
This time CAT Exam will be scheduled to be conducted at over 420 Test Centres, spread across 170 cities in India.
It offers candidates the option to select five cities in order of preference to appear for the exam instead of last year's six cities
Syllabus and exam pattern remains the same as last year with 75-80 questions divided into three sections.
CAT remains a computer-based test as last year. Candidates need to appear for the exam at test centers.
The questions will be MCQs only. No negative marking for Non-MCQs
Slot Timings of CAT
CAT exam is conducted in three slots – Morning, Afternoon and evening.
Morning Slot - 8:30 AM to 11:30 AM
Afternoon Slot - 12:30 PM to 2:30 PM
Evening Slot - 4:30 PM to 6:30 PM
Check the list of   Top MBA Colleges in India
Now CAT 2025 aspirants have only a few months for the preparation of the CAT. Candidates are instructed to solve the test series and mock tests. It's essential to solve previous year's papers and mock tests so that candidates can improve their speed. Solving more papers allows you to manage your time in the exam. This kind of practice will strengthen your weak areas, and you will also be able to improve your rank. CAT rank enables candidates to be admitted to some of the top MBA/PGDM colleges in India. Also, they are advised to check our website for all the updates related to CAT Dates.
Question: How many times CAT exam is conducted in a year?
Answer: CAT is conducted only once a year. Every year in the month of November CAT exam is organized by one of the IIMs.
Question: When will the CAT 2025 Registration start?
Answer: Registration for the CAT exam 2025 is starting from August 01, 2025. And the last date to apply for the exam is Sept. 20, 2025.
Question: When will the  CAT 2023 admit card be available?
Answer: Admit cards for the CAT exam will be released on November 05, 2025 and available to download till November 30, 2025. Candidates can download their admit card from the official website of i.e
https://iimcat.ac.in/.
Question: When CAT 2025 exam will be held?
Answer:The CAT Exam for the year 2025 will be conducted on 30 Nov 2025.
.
Question: When will the CAT 2025 result  declare?
Answer:Answer: As per the official document the CAT 2025 result will be declared in second week of January 2025.
--- https://mbaroi.in/cat-admit-card/
Cat Admit Card
CAT Admit Card - 2024
As per official notification, the CAT 2024 exam admit cards will be available for download from November 05, 2024. All the registered candidate of CAT 2024 can download their admit card from the official website till November 24, 2024. To appear in this year's CAT examination having the admit card is a must and required to bring a physical copy to the examination. Candidates are also required to read the instructions written on the admit card and follow them. No one is allowed to enter the examination hall of CAT 2024 without a hall ticket. It is advised to the candidate to download their CAT hall ticket as soon as possible to rectify the error on the admit card if any or avoid the server-down situation.
For downloading admit card students need to use CAT login id at the iim-cat website. The download of admit cards can be done
till the examination begins. As per the IIM announcement the exam is scheduled on November 24, 2024 at 410+ test centres in
170 cities. The CAT 2024 exam will be conducted in three slots -morning, afternoon and evening.
CAT hall ticket have information on exam date, slot, time, venue, reporting time as well as general guidelines for personal conduct at the exam centre.
CAT Important Dates
How to Download CAT Admit Card?
Details Mentioned on Admit Card
Problems while downloading the admit card of CAT 2024
CAT Exam Day Instructions
FAQs Regarding Admit Card
Take a look at the table below for the expected schedule of CAT 2024:
Get Latest CAT Exam Update
How to Download CAT 2024 Admit Card?
Admit card will be available for download on the official website only. For downloading the CAT admit card, candidates needs to follow the steps given below:
Visit the official CAT 2024 website link  - iimcat.ac.in.
Click on 'Login' .
Enter registration ID and password.
Click on 'admit card'.
Click on download and save the admit card on desktop.
Take a print out of the admit card.
Details Mentioned on the Admit Card
Candidate's name
Candidate's caste
Candidate's date of birth
Candidate's photo
Candidate's signature
Registration number
Date and time of the exam
exam centre address
Google map link to locate exam centre
Emergency contact number
Test system number to identify your examination room
CAT related instructions
Problems Candidates may face while Downloading CAT Admit Card
In general aspirants faces the following issues while downloading the admit cards. The solution is also given.
More than 2,50,000 students will be applying for the  CAT Exam. The CAT website may face technical issues sometimes due to heavy traffic load or any other reason. In such a situation, wait for some time, do not continuously try to log in. Log out and visit the website after sometime to download your admit card.
Sometimes your laptop or mobile may not have enough internet data or wi-fi may not be working properly. Check the speed of your internet connection. If it is slow, switch to a faster internet connection to download your CAT exam admit card.
If you have forgotten your password and unable to recall the login credentials, then you need to use the ‘forgot password’ option given on the examination website and follow the instructions to change the password and use it for downloading the CAT hall ticket.
After downloading the admit card, candidates must cross check and verify all the information mentioned on it. The following information on CAT exam admit card must match with the information on the CAT application form:
Your Name and spelling should be same as in CAT application form
CAT registration number must be the same as the registered user ID
Date of birth should be the same as mentioned on the application form and in official documents
Caste category status should same as in CAT application form
PwD/DA status should be same as in CAT application form
Test city must be from one of the options mentioned in the application form
Candidate's photograph and signature must be clearly visible
In case, any candidate finds error in their admit card, must immediately contact the exam authority to get it corrected. Given below are the contact details:
CAT helpline: 1-800-209-0830 (Toll-Free)
Email at cathelpdesk@iimcat.ac.in
The aspirants must carry two copies of the CAT 2024 admit card and a photo ID proof (original and photocopy)
Only admit card & photo ID card will be allowed inside the exam hall
Writing pad and pen will be provided inside the exam hall for rough work and that’s to be returned after the test. Candidates will be required to write their name and registration number on the writing pad.
Candidates must reach the exam centre at the reporting time mentioned in their admit cards
Candidates must use the Reference Number printed on the admit card for identifying the door/wing/lab at the test venue on the day of the test
Candidates are not supposed to sign their CAT exam admit card beforehand. The admit card is to be signed only inside the exam hall in front of the invigilator
Candidates must affix their photo same as the one uploaded with the CAT application form
Mobile phone, calculator, IPad or any other gadget is prohibited inside the examination hall
Candidates are advised not to carry bags or luggage to the CAT exam centre as there will be no provision to submit bags and valuables
Jewellery that contains metal, clothes with pockets, jackets and footwear are prohibited inside the exam hall
Candidates with a metal implant, pacemaker, etc. in their body will be required to bring medical certificate of the same
Candidates are required to carry an ID proof issued by the Government of India or previous college/university along with the CAT exam admit card to the examination hall. Given below is the list of documents that they can carry as ID proof:
Aadhaar card
Voter ID
Passport
PAN card
E-Aadhaar
Ration Card
College/University ID
Driver's license
CAT 2024 exam will be conducted on a single day in three slots. The exam slots will be allotted to candidates on first-cum- first-serve basis (application submission). Given below are the CAT timings:
CAT admit card download process will start from October 26, 2024
FAQs Regarding CAT 2024 Admit Card
Que.  What is the CAT admit card download date?
Ans.  CAT 2024 admit card will be available to download on November 05, 2024. You can visit our site for latest updates of CAT 2024 exam. We will update the details on our site on regular basis.
Que. What is ‘Test System Number’ in the CAT exam admit card?
Ans. All the instructions are mentioned in CAT admit card. Those instructions will help you to identify the floor or computer system allotted at the designated center. If you face difficulty in finding your test center then appointed staff will help you.
Que.  Which Photo ID should I carry along with my admit card?
Ans.  Along with two copies of admit card students can carry anyone Original ID card from Voter ID, Aadhaar card, PAN card, Passport, Driver's License.
Que.  Is I am allowed to enter in exam hall if I reach before/after the mentioned timings?
Ans.  Strictly No!
Que.  What if there is an error in the CAT exam Admit Card?
Ans.  In case of an error on the CAT 2024 admit card, you can reach out to the helpdesk of CAT and get it rectified before the exam day. The Exam Center will not be allowed to help any student to print their admit card.
Que.  Does the CAT admit card 2024 contains a google link for location?
Ans.  Yes, you can find the google map link of the designated exam center.
List of CAT Exam Cities
Admission in IIMs without CAT?
Most Common MBA Interview Questions Asked in Personal Interview?
What is CAT 2024 Syllabus?
How An MBA Should Prepare For An Interview?
--- https://mbaroi.in/cat-eligibility-criteria/
CAT Eligibility
CAT 2024 Eligibility
Candidates appearing for CAT must hold a bachelor’s degree with at least 50% marks or equivalent CGPA (45% incase of SC, ST or Disability(PWD) category) from recognized university/institution/college. (not applicable for CAT 2024)
Candidates appearing for the final year of bachelor’s degree/equivalent qualification	or awaiting for results are also eligible to apply. However, if such candidate got selected then they will be allowed to join the programm provisionally, only when they submit a certificate issued by the authorized person (principal/registrar) stating that the selected student 	have completed all the requirements for obtaining the bachelor’s degree/equivalent qualification on the date of issue of the certificate.
Candidate should fulfill any of the following
Completed Bachelor’s degree with the required percentage of marks.
Completed professional degree (CA/CS/ICWA) with required percentage.
Should be in the final year of Bachelor’s degree with required percentage.
SC/ST/PwD candidates should have a minimum 45%. For General, EWS and NC-OBC candidates, the minimum is 50%
If a candidate belongs to SC or ST categories the respective caste/tribe must be listed in the government of india schedule. The caste certificate should be submits to IIM in approved format
Name of the caste/tribe
Weather candidates belongs to SC or ST
District and Stated or union territory of the candidate
A copy of the certificate must be submitted at the time of CAT application registration.
Candidate must submit the photocopy of the certificate at the time of interview. Moreover candidates must submit the document at the time of joining the program at any of the IIMs.
Reservation
As per the government norms 15% of the seats are reserved for Scheduled Caste (SC) and 7.5% for Schedule Tribe (ST) Candidates and 27% seats are reserved for Other Backward Classes belonging to the 'non-creamy' layer (NC-OBC). Up to 10% seats are reserved for (EWS) candidates.
No changes in the category will be entertained after CAT Exam registration.
As per the government norms for The Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016 (RPwD Act 2016), 5% seats are reserved for Persons with Benchmark Disabilities (PwD - person with not less than forty percent (40%) of a specified disability ). Where “Specified disability” means the disabilities as specified in the Schedule of the RPwD Act 2016. The categories of disability are:
Blindness and low vision
Deaf and hard of hearing
Locomotor disability including cerebral palsy, leprosy cured, dwarfism, acid attack victims and muscular dystrophy.
Autism, intellectual disability, specific learning disability and mental illness
Multiple disabilities from amongst persons under clauses (a) to (d)
Other ‘specified disabilities’ mentioned in ‘The Schedule’ of the RPwD Act 2016
--- https://mbaroi.in/cat/cat-exam-registration/
CAT Registration - 2024
CAT Exam Registration
IIM Calcutta the exam conducting body of the CAT 2024 exam have released the official notification on July 28th, 2024. As per the information, registration for CAT exam 2024 is starting from August 01, 2024, and remain open till September 20, 2024. Last year the number of CAT registrations was 2,55,000 and this year the number will increase. For all the candidate who wants to appear in the CAT examination, they must fill out the exam form and register themselves. Before filling out the CAT exam form, all the candidates are advised to check the syllabus, eligibility criteria, and Terms & conditions of exam. This exam offers admission to management courses in IIMs and other top MBA Colleges in India.
Important Event of CAT 2024
All the candidates will require a valid and active email id. All the communication about CAT exam updates will send to provided mail. It is advised that candidates will use their personal mail instead of a family member or friend's mail.
Also, candidates need to provide a valid and active mobile number for registration purposes. The aspirant will get notifications and information about the exam on their phone via SMS.
CAT Application form consider submitted only after the successful online payment of the exam fee. So Candidates are instructed to keep ready their Credit/Debit Card / Net banking credentials or phone for UPI or wallet transactions.
Important Guidelines of CAT 2024 Registration
Use the latest version of web browser to fill eaxm form and prefer chrome or Mozilla.
All the points with "*" are mandatory to fill in the form.
Candidates have to provide their current name, DOB, email, and mobile number because they cannot be changed after submission.
The name of the candidate should be the same as the 10th/SSC mark sheet.
For PWD Candidate: -  If you are using a scribe then you have to arrange the scribe and need to fill out the scribe affidavit form provided on the CAT website.
Kindly upload the self-assested copy of all the certificates and it needs to be clearly visible.
A candidate with a dual degree is advised to enter the most appropriate details.
Please double-check all the information before submission to avoid any errors in the form.
Documents Required for CAT Registration
For the CAT registration candidate need to provide some documents with are necessary to submit. Check the list of required documents -
CAT Application Process - Steps
Candidates are instructed to follow the steps below to complete the Registrations for CAT:
Visit the official website of CAT (iimcat.ac.in).
Login to the CAT Website. If you are already registered on the website click "Registered Candidate". If the exam registration in fresh follow further mentiond steps
Now click on the "New Registration" button.
Read the Instructions and the Procedure before starting the process.
Now fill some basic details mentioned below and generate ID and Password.
Personal details
Contact details
Choose Password
Security Pin
Make use of the system generated application number and created password, login again.
Enter Your Personal Detail like - Name, Father's Name, Mother's Name and Spouse's Name.
Now Select the applicable cateogry such as - General/OBC/EWS/SC/ST/Tribe/PWD. And enter additional details like Certificate Issue Date, Serial/Entry Number of Caste/Tribe, State/Union
Territory of Caste/Tribe, and Caste/Tribe Name
Select your nationality
Fill up the address details and "Emergency Contact Details".
Now Upload all the applicable documents mentioned above.
Click on Save and Next button.
On next section enter your academics details - 10th/12th/Bachelor/PG/Diploma/Other Professional Degree. Now click on Save and next.
In this section enter all of your work experience details.
Select Programme and Institute.
Now Select "CAT Exam Center City" as per preference.
In this section pay the CAT Application Form Fee.
Now submit the cat exam form
You'll require documents of:
All your qualification details
Category Certificate - If applicable
A scanned copy of photograph and signature as per the following requirement:
Note: Upload your recent passport size photograph and signature
Final step after filling up the online Application Form is to pay the Registration Fee.  In 2024 the CAT Fee has been increased by 100 INR for the general category and 50 INR for the reserved category.
The application fee for different categories is as follows:
Modes of CAT 2024 Application Fee Payment
Candidates can select for ONLINE PAYMENT and then make their payment using Credit Card/Debit Card/Net Banking/Wallets/UPI. Once a candidates’ payment is successfully done. They will receive the confirmation email and SMS.
Mistakes to Avoid During CAT Exam Registration
As metioned above the registraion process for CAT 2024 is completely online. And it important for all the aspirnats to complete the CAT registration smoothy and error free to avoid any problem in future. Here are some points that every candidate need to take care while filling up the CAT exam application form.
No internet interruption during CAT Registration - Candidate should ensure that their computer internet connectivity is good, and no breakage/interruption occurs during the registration process.
No mistake on Academic details - Candidate should gather all their qualification details and fill them correctly during registration .
Provide valid email address and mobile number - Candidate should provide a valid email address and mobile number while registering for CAT. All communication regarding the exam will be done on this email address and mobile number.
Scanned Photo & Signature should be of correct size - Candidates need to upload their scanned photo and signature while registration process. Therefore, candidates should keep ready their scanned Photo and Signature and follow the guidelines mentioned by CAT authorities
Check the Validity of CREDIT/DEBIT CARD - In case of making payment Online, candidate should ensure that their CREDIT/DEBIT CARD is valid to have a smooth transaction and avoid loss of money.
--- https://mbaroi.in/cat-syllabus/
Updated CAT Syllabus 2024
CAT exam dates are out now and candidates have only few months for the preparation of the exam. As we all know that this exam covers a wide syllabus and candidates are required to complete it in a timely manner for securing a higher rank. For better preparation for the exam, candidates need to have knowledge of the updated exam syllabus and the exam pattern. In this article, you'll find each and every information of the 2024 exam syllabus and pattern of the exam.
What is in the CAT Syllabus?
There is no official CAT exam syllabus released by IIMs or any authenticated source. Yes, you have heard this right all the information available online is based on the previous year's papers and mock tests provided by IIMs Our teams working on syllabus who are IIM alumni and CAT experts have suggested the syllabus could be as below:
VARC (Verbal Ability & Reading Comprehension)
DILR (Data Interpretation& Logical Reasoning)
QA (Quantitative Ability)
CAT 2024 - The Complete Composition
After a deep analysis of CAT previous year's papers and exam patterns, our experts created the syllabus of CAT with section-wise weightage of each topic in the 2024 exam.
The following was the pattern of CAT Exam
Total number of questions: 66 Maximum Time: 120 Min.
VARC: 24 questions on specific topics, maximum time permitted 40 min.
DILR: 20 questions, maximum time permitted 40 min.
QUANT:22 questions, focus on Arithmetic, maximum time permitted 40 min.
VARC - 3-5
DILR - 3-5
QA - 4-5
Marking Scheme: For every correct answer student will get +3 marks and for a wrong answer -1. No negative marking for Non-MCQs
Candidates will be allotted exactly 40 minutes for answering questions in each section and they will not be allowed to switch from one section to another while answering questions in a section.
Tutorials to understand the format of the test will be available on the CAT website. Candidates are advised to work on the tutorials available on the CAT website well in advance.
Also read about :   IIM Placements 2024 & IIM waitlist movement
Section Highlights: Common Admission Test (CAT) for VARC section is divided into 2 parts. The 1st part of the syllabus of CAT covers topics on Reading Comprehension passages and the 2nd part of syllabus on VARC covers topics on Verbal Ability.
International Affairs, Govt policies and Schemes, i.e.,Russia vs Ukraine War, Agneepath Scheme, Triple Talaq, CAA, COVID 19 Pandemic, Clean India Mission, Migration of people from one country to other, Growing intolerance across the Globe.
Business & Economic RC Passages, i.e., Indian budget 2024, Economic reform of India, Global economic changes, economic development at the cost of environment, Impact of Demonetization in India, Wasteful expenditure by Governments.
RC passages from various English Literature books, from articles authored by great philosophers and thinkers, from speeches of great personalities like Charles Dickens, Aristotle, Martin Luther King, Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi, Churchill, etc.
Passages on Science & Culture including the journey to Modern world; Fading culture with the advancement of technology
Abstract topics and fiction are also included in the Reading Comprehension Syllabus for CAT.
These passages make the candidates to put themselves in the author’s shoes before answering the questions since they are opinion based.
RC Passages on Historical events leading to social changes, i.e., French Revolution, War of Roses, Social changes in Indian History and thoughts shared by various activists which are relevant even in current times.
RC Passages from Mythology like Indian Veda and Granths.
These passages try to correlate the Mythological events with the current social structure and answers to these questions must be inferred
RC passage on any topic 'under the Sun' can be placed in exam.
Number of Questions: 12-15
Sectional Weightage in CAT: 15%-20%
Type of passages in Exam on RC: 3 Long and 2 Short.
Division of questions: 6 questions based on each long passage and 3 questions based on each short passage. Sometimes, a uniform number of 5 questions is followed for 4 RC passages and 4 questions for 1 RC Passage.
Type of Questions: All MCQ type with 1/3rd negative marking.
Format of Questions: Questions based on information in RC passage; explanation of the words & phrases as used in the passage; in context of the passage – True/False statements; Author’s view on various issues as raised in the RC passage; Inference from the passage; main idea of RC passage; Purpose of the RC passage
Length of RC passages in CAT: Longer RC passages are of somewhere around 900 words; shorter passages are of around 600 words in exam as revealed in last 3 years.
Formal style of topics in RC Syllabus for CAT: Genetics, Second World War; Plastic Pollution; Elephant society; Consumer Behaviour; Status of Languages in 2115; Education System; Sustainable Economic Development; Anthropology /Excruciating Rituals & Reasons; Govt. definition of Poverty and treatment of Household work.
Essence of short paragraph/Para summary - (4-5 questions).
Jumbled Paragraphs (4-5 questions)
Out of Context Sentence in Jumbled Paragraphs (4-5 questions)
Error Correction of Verb, Noun, Pronoun, Adjective, Adverb, and other Parts of Speech in the Sentences.
Correcting the sequence of sentences in the paragraph, i.e., correct use of conditional sentence, time clauses, reported speech, passive writing, etc.
Vocabulary usage – picking the correct pair of words
Vocabulary usage in RC passages – look for correct synonyms and antonyms
Completion of last sentence of Paragraphs
Analogies
Critical Reasoning
Sentence Completion
Facts, Inference and Judgement
Irrelevant Statements
Phrasal Verbs Usage
Type of Questions: All Non-MCQ type with No penalty for wrong answer
Format of questions: Crux of paragraph questions are based on around 5-6 sentences; Questions on Jumbled Paragraphs and Out of Context Jumbled Paragraphs that carries 4 -5 jumbled sentences which are to be arranged in a coherent manner. The Out of Context sentences must be selected.
Also Read: CAT Cut off & Work from home vs work from office
Section Highlights: CAT Syllabus and pattern for Data Interpretation and Logical Reasoning (DILR) has been refurbished. As a separate section in CAT exam, DILR was re-originated after keeping the section in abeyance for 4 years. During this period, the DILR questions were clubbed to Quant and Verbal Ability sections, respectively.
Syllabus for DILR section in CAT is divided in 2 parts – Syllabus for Data Interpretation and Syllabus for Logical Reasoning. The 1st part of CAT syllabus covers questions based on Data Interpretation (DI) and the 2nd part is based on questions, on different topics of Logical Reasoning.
Data Tables
Data charts
Bar diagrams & Charts including Simple, Stacked, Composite Bar charts
Pie charts
Graphs – Line X-Y Graphs
Data analysis and Data comparison among others
Caselet based Data
Number of Questions: 11-14 divided into MCQs and Non- MCQs
Sectional weightage in CAT: 13% - 17%
Former style of topics in CAT Syllabus for DI: Table; Films: Launch, Completion, Release and Profits; Table on Consumption of Veg and Non-Veg Protein; Happiness Index: 4 questions based on Table; Kids Learning in Rural Areas: Data table based 4 questions; Flight operation questions, in the set of 4 questions.
Questions on Data Interpretation and analysis of data based on text, tables, graphs (line, area), charts (column, bar, pie), Venn diagram. Data could be given in the form of tables, charts, or graphs.
This section tests candidate’s interpretation abilities on the given data.
Clocks
Calendars
Binary logic
Seating Arrangement
Blood Relations (Family Tree)
Logical Sequence
Assumption
Premise
Conclusion
Linear and matrix arrangement
Team Formation
Direction sense and Decision Making
Input-Output
Series
Syllogism
Cubes
Rows
Set Theory, Venn Diagrams, Network Diagrams
Quantitative Reasoning
Puzzles
Logical Reasoning based on Rankings
Also Read: IIM Placements & IIM Waitlist Movement
CAT entrance exam syllabus classifies, that questions in LR section can be individual or can be in the set of 4 questions.
Total LR questions in CAT: 11-14
Weightage of LR Syllabus questions in CAT: 13% - 17%
Type of Questions: MCQs & Non MCQs
Formal style of topics in LR Syllabus: Distribution/Arrangement; Venn Diagrams; Arrangement of files in folders; Students using various Trains and the fares for the same; Seating Arrangement; Direction sense for Cars; Ordering items; Burgers/Fries/ Ice Cream
Section Highlight: The syllabus for Quant section is overly broad. Quantitative Ability (Quant) is the 3rd and final section in the refurbished exam pattern.  The syllabus and pattern for Quant is vast and covers everything in Mathematics, that you may or may not expect. CAT exam syllabus on Quant is based on questions from different topics of Arithmetic, Algebra, Modern Math, Geometry, Mensuration, Trigonometry, etc.
LCM and HCF
Percentages
Profit and Loss
Interest (Simple and Compound)
Speed, Time, and Distance; Time and Work; Averages; Ratio and Proportion and others
Number System (3-4 questions)
Algebra (5-7 questions)
Geometry/Mensuration (6-8 questions)
Pure Math (1-2 questions)
Venn diagrams and other topic-based (2-3 questions)
Linear Equations; Quadratic Equations
Complex Numbers
Logarithm; Progressions
Binomial Theorem
Surds and Indices
Inequalities
Permutation and Combination
Probability Functions
Set Theory
Mixtures and Alligations
Co-ordinate Geometry
Trigonometry
Also Know about Best coaching for CAT
Total Number of Questions: 28 - 32.
Sectional weightage in CAT: 35% - 40%
Type of Questions: MCQs and Non-MCQs
Formal style shows that there were 20 to 22 MCQs and 8 to 10 Non-MCQs in Quant section of CAT exam
Emphasis on Arithmetic to boost academic variety.
Number of questions in Arithmetic: 14 to 18
Learn About:  Time Management Tips for CAT Exam
CAT Exam Syllabus Past Trends
5 RC passages, followed by 24 questions based on inferences, statements, arguments, main idea, author’s assumption, vocabulary – synonyms, antonyms, meaning of the phrase as present in the passage.
10 questions based on Para Summary. Jumbled Paragraphs of 4 sentences, Jumbled Paragraphs of 5 sentences, followed by questions of pick the odd one out.
Questions come in sets of 4-5, both in DI and LR.
10 questions in DI, based on Data Analysis, Data comparison from Table, Graphs, Bar graphs, Pie charts, Data Caselets.
10 questions in LR, based on Direction sense, Team formation, Seating Arrangement, Blood Relation.
50% questions are based on Arithmetic topics like Number System, Ratio, Percentage, Interest, Profit & Loss, Speed & Distance, Time & Work, and others.
Rest 50% is covered by topics on Geometry, Algebra, Mensuration, and Modern Math.
CAT 2024 Exam pattern and Time Duration
In 2024 the CAT paper consist 75-80 questions from all three section. For solving each section 40 minutes will be allocated to the aspirants and the total time duration of exam is 120 minutes. Extra 40 minutes will be given to the PWD candidates for sovling the exam. 3 marks will be rewarded for every right answer and 1 mark will be dedcuted for every wrong answer. There is no provision for  negative marking in case cnadidates left the questions. Exam will be conducted in an online manner.
Requirement of CAT Exam Syllabus
You cannot prepare for CAT without CAT Section wise Syllabus Each section in CAT exam is unique and equally important. The unique weightage system is what matters for shortlisting process of IIMs. If you do not score required percentile in any of the three sections, you will not be shortlisted by any IIM. So, it is important to be aware of complete syllabus and prepare accordingly. It would be beneficial if you do not leave any topic unread.
It would be extremely difficult to proceed with the preparation of CAT without acknowledging the syllabus first. Syllabus for CAT is extremely wide and requires special focus. It is advised that you download the syllabus and go through it first so that you can clear idea of weightage to get into your preferred B-Schools.
CAT syllabus for MBA is based on the guidelines and current structure of exam. This exam has never had any limitations, and this also relates to the syllabus of CAT. The updated exam syllabus is the outcome of the topics which have earlier appeared in CAT exam although the type of questions, their  composition, format and number may change in each subsequent exam. Past tendencies indicate that CAT MBA syllabus and pattern overall tests the candidate on Verbal Ability & Reading Comprehension; Quantitative Aptitude; Data Interpretation & Logical Reasoning. The syllabus covers all the major topics in three test sections which are further divided into sub-sections. The main point in syllabus is that there is no recurrence of CAT questions in any CAT test although difficulty level of the questions in exam would not go out of the syllabus. The syllabus is available online for download at various websites.  The Syllabus keeps changing after each exam. It may be changed again based on exam pattern, Exam Syllabus appeared in last year CAT question paper may get not be a part of this year’s syllabus.
Note: IIM entrance exam syllabus is not pre-defined by CAT.
Yearly ChangesThe CAT question paper with maximum of 100 test questions of MCQ and Non-MCQ type is based on updated topics included in CAT syllabus. You will be able to crack CAT with high score, if you prepare in accord with the modified exam syllabus.
Every year, the Syllabus and pattern is revised by CAT experts with expected changes in CAT exam pattern and the topics. After this practice, the syllabus is updated section wise.
Also Read:
Top MBA Colleges in Jaipur
Top 10 MBA Colleges in India
Top MBA Colleges in Bangalore
Top MBA Colleges in Delhi
FAQ CAT 2024 Syllabus, Exam pattern
Questions: What is the CAT 2024 syllabus?
Answer: CAT syllabus 2024 is divided into 3 parts :  VARC (Verbal Ability & Reading Comprehension),DILR (Data Interpretation& Logical Reasoning)and QA (Quantitative Ability).
Questions: Is CAT Exam tough?
Answer: CAT exam is considered one of the toughest entrance exams in India. Every year more than 2,00,000 candidates appear in the exam and fight for the seats of top mba colleges in India. CAT exam diffculty level is moderate to high.
Questions: What is the time duration of CAT exam?
Answer: The total time duration of the CAT Exam is 120  minutes. Each section in the exam is about 40 minutes and extra time of 40 minutes will be provided to the PwD candidates only.
Questions: What is the marking scheme for CAT 2024?
Answer: CAT exam have 66 questions this year and the total marks for the CAT 2024 exam are 2208. For every right answer, 3 marks will be rewarded to the candidate and 1 mark is deducted for every wrong answer. No provision for deduction in case of an empty answer. On the basis of that marking scheme, the CAT result will be going to declare.
Questions: What is best way to prepare for CAT Exam?
Answer: CAT preparation Strategies require solving the CAT mock test, CAT previous year's papers, and making a daily routine of studies. The candidate needs to be focused on his goal.
--- https://mbaroi.in/cat/cat-all-previous-year-papers/
Direct Links to Download CAT Previous Year Papers (2008 to 2023):
Here you can find the solved CAT previous year paper starting from the year 2008 till the 2023 year. We provide the CAT 2021 question paper, and CAT 2020 question paper along with the solution in the pdf format so candidates can download and prepare for the upcoming CAT 2024 exam. CAT papers consist of 3 sections -  1. Data Interpretation and Logical Reasoning(DILR), 2. Verbal Ability & Reading Comprehension (VARC) 3. Quantitative Aptitude (QA). Before a candidate starts solving the CAT exam paper they are advised to go through  CAT Syllabus and Exam Pattern, and check the complete composition of the CAT exam.
CAT 2023 Slot 3 Paper with Solutions
CAT 2023 Slot 2 Paper with Solutions
CAT 2023 Slot 1 Paper with Solutions
CAT 2022 Slot 3 Paper with Solutions
CAT 2022 Slot 2 Paper with Solutions
CAT 2022 Slot 1 Paper with Solutions
CAT 2021 Paper with Solutions
CAT 2021 Slot 2 Paper with Solutions
CAT 2020 Slot 3 Paper with Solutions
CAT 2020 Slot 1 Paper with Solutions
CAT 2020 Slot 2 Paper with Solutions
CAT 2019 Slot 1 Paper with Solutions
CAT 2019 Slot 2 Paper with Solutions
CAT 2018 Slot 2 Paper with Solutions
CAT 2017 Shift-1 Paper with Solutions
CAT 2017 Shift-2 Paper with Solutions
CAT 2016 With Answers
CAT 2015 With Answers
CAT 2014 With Answers
CAT 2012 With Answers
CAT 2011 With Answers
CAT 2010 With Answers
CAT 2009 With Answers
CAT 2008 With Answers
Why it's important to solve CAT Previous Year Papers?
All the CAT 2024 aspirants are advised to solve the CAT previous year’s paper for better preparation for the exam. Solving the papers will definitely help you in the upcoming CAT exam.  By this, you can have some useful insight into your performance in the CAT exam and reshape your exam strategy according to that.  It will give you an idea about the time management in the exam and topics that need more improvement for the exam. Once you have done solving the previous year’s papers now you can solve the CAT mock test series to analyze the performance and the level of practice they need to score more percentile in CAT 2024.
FAQ - CAT Previous Year Papers
Question. Is CAT a tough Exam?
Answer. CAT is one of the toughest entrance exams in India. Every year more than 2,00,000 students participate in the exam and only 5,000 are able to secure seats in IIMs.
Question. Is CAT MCQ-based exam?
Answer. Yes, the CAT exam has MCQ based pattern. CAT Exam can have up to 100 questions from all three sections. Each question carries 3 marks, for every right answer candidates will be given 3 marks and -1 will be deducted for every wrong answer.
Question. Who prepare the CAT question paper?
Answer. CAT paper is prepared by the IIM which is hosting the exam. In 2024, CAT will be conducted by the IIM Bangalore.
Question. Where I can find the CAT previous year paper?
Answer. CAT's previous year's question paper is not published officially by IIM. Although candidates can find the last few years' question papers on the MBAROI site. And they can also download the free pdf of answer keys also from here.
--- https://mbaroi.in/IIM/cap/
IIM
Common Admission Process
IIM CAP - 2025
IIM CAP 2025 - Admission, Selection Process, Cutoff, CAP Participating Institutes, Dates, Shortlisting Criteria, Results
What is IIM CAP?
Important Dates for CAP 2025
Shortlisting Criteria for IIM CAP
Major Components of IIM CAP 2025
How To Participate in Common Admission Process 2025?
IIM CAP 2025  - Participating IIMs, Application Process, Admission Criteria and Final Result, Cutoff
Full form of CAP: Common Admission Process.
What is CAP? Common Admission Process for MBA/PGDM for Nine New or Baby IIMs after CAT examination.
CAP 2025, Common Admission Process or CAP, is a selection process for the MBA/PGDM/PGP program conducted after CAT for admission to the new Nine IIMs. The CAP is mainly based on CAT scores. The top IIMs, including IIM-A, B, C, I, and L, proceed with admissions based on each institute's cut-off after the announcement of the CAT 2024 result.
The aspirants who get a call after CAT result needs to take part in CAP. CAP has two components:
i) Written Ability Test (WAT)
ii) Personal Interview (PI)
The Common Admission Process (CAP) for admission to nine new IIMs is a typical selection process. All aspirants interested and eligible for MBA/PGDM/PGP admission 2025 in nine baby IIMs must appear only for the one-time PI-WAT round. For this process, all new IIMs share the list of aspirants shortlisted for the WAT-PI process, with the IIM conducting CAP 2025.
The IIM who conducts The CAP arranges for the WAT-PI round. Minimum CAT 2024 cut off, admission factors, and their weightage is same to all CAP participating IIMs.
The aspirants' marks, obtained in the Common Admission Process 2024, are then sent to all participating IIMs. Based on the aspirants' final marks, all nine IIMs individually announce the merit list of selected aspirants for their MBA program. The list of selected students is displayed on the respective IIMs' websites. Aspirants can see this list after logging in to the website of that IIM.
Aspirants after qualifying CAT 2024 should know the schedule for IIM CAP 2025 as mentioned below.
There will be no Group Discussion as part of CAP 2025.
After submitting the IIM CAP 2025 registration form, aspirants cannot change the details. Therefore, you must carefully read the instructions before submitting your CAP form.
The following documents are required when filling out the IIM CAP registration form. So keep them handy:
Guidelines for Aspirants Filling CAP Registration Form 2025
After submitting the IIM cap 2025 registration form, aspirants can't change the details. Therefore, you must carefully read the instructions before submitting your CAP form.
At the time of filling up the IIM CAP registration form following documents are required. So keep them handy:
Soft copy of the Photograph and Signature (Less than 100 KB)
Photo Id Card
CAT 2021 Scorecard
Class 10 and Class 12 mark sheet with a pass certificate
Graduation certificates
Experience certificates
Valid caste certificate (NC-OBC/ SC/ ST) as per the format given on the CAT website.
In the case of DAP / PwD, certificate as per the format given on the CAT website.
In the case of EWS, certificate as per the format given on the CAT website.
Extra-curricular and co-curricular certificates
Here is the Registration process for CAP 2025-
Step 1: Visit the official website of IIM CAP. https://cap2025.iimkashipurportal.org/
Step 2: Click on the link ‘Register Now’.
Step 3: Fill all the desired information on CAP 2025 registration form.
Step 4: Upload all the compulsory documents in a approved format.
Step 5: Finally, submit the filled IIM CAP application.
What is the IIM CAP - Shortlisting Criteria?
The following are the overall percentile and the mini cut-off of the CAT percentile required in each category for listing applicants for PI:
What are the Main Components of IIM CAP?
The two major components of CAP areas below:
WAT or written ability test and
PI or personal interview.
How to Participate in Common Admission Process?
Once the CAT 2024 result is announced after the second week of January 2025, eligible candidates will find out about the cap 2025 dates on the respective IIM's website. Eligible aspirants will also receive an email. The CAP process for IIMs should start three weeks after the announcement of the CAT results in 2024.
WAT (written ability test) and PI (personal interview) for the CAP 2025 of IIM will be held at the following CAP test centres:
New Delhi
Chennai
Kolkata
Mumbai
Bengaluru
Steps Followed in IIM CAP Process:
Aspirants getting valid score in CAT 2025 are eligible to take part in CAP. The steps that are followed by the IIMs are as below:
Step 1 - Shortlisting of candidates by individual IIMs
Step 2 - List of shortlisted candidates is sent to CAP Coordinator IIM.
Step 3 - CAP conducting IIM to prepare list of shortlisted candidates.
Step 4 - Candidates to take part in WAT and PI
Step 5 - CAP conducting IIM sends the WAT-PI score report to all participating IIMs under CAP.
Step 6 - Preparation of Final List of Candidates
All IIMs under CAP have their own admission plan and they provide weightage to the CAT score, applicant’s profile as well as CAP score before making a final offer to the aspirants.Finally the offer letters are sent to selected candidates through email.
The nine participating IIMs will prepare the final merit list for PGP/PGDM/MBA admission 2025 of the marks scored in PI and WAT in CAP 2025, the CAT 2024 test, and other parameters like academic profile and diversity subject to their admission criteria.
As the number of seats in IIMs are increased, this year 27000+ candidates who qualify the sectional and overall cut offs in CAT 2024 exam may figure in the CAP 2025 shortlist.
More candidates per seat are shortlisted by IIMs as against earlier ratio.
cap 2025 - Shortlisting Cut-offs for IIMs (Last Year)
Aspirants may look at the minimum percentile for shortlisting by various IIMs and the number of candidates shortlisted for the following selection round.
Please note the following requirements for personal interview through online mode
Desktop/Laptop with camera
Headphone/earphone
Microphone
Stable and high-speed Internet connection
Stationary items such as pens/pencils/blank sheet etc
Installation of Zoom software on Desktop/Laptop
A white background or a clear background of a lighter colour ensuring better visibility.
A valid photo ID for verification
Instructions for Online Personal Interview
Candidates are required to join the Online Personal Interview through the Zoom platform by clicking on the provided link to attend the interview on the designated date and time of the interview.
For Forenoon Slot: The candidate should join by 9.30 am and should be available in the waiting room until his/her PI process is over.
For Afternoon Slot: The candidate should join by 1.30 pm and should be available in the waiting room until his/her PI process is over.
Candidates must be prepared for the interview with the necessary requirements as mentioned above in Part 1 on the designated date and time
No person other than the candidate should be present in the interview room in the house/any other place.
Recording devices are strictly prohibited in the interview room.
The audio and video must be ‘on’ for the entire duration of the interview.
Candidates are advised to be available for the entire slot as communicated.
Please check your inbox as well as SPAM or Junk or promotion boxes/folders regularly.
How to prepare for the interview?
The panel will evaluate the candidate’s academic efforts and disposition, attitude,
personality and communication, and the quality of work experience.
Besides CAT 2024 score few of the main points that are considered while shortlisting the aspirants are mentioned below:
CAT 2024 Score:
IIMs that offer admission to the aspirants consider the overall as well as the sectional cut-off of CAT.
Educational Details & Profile
Academic qualification of the aspirants is given due  weightage  for selecting student for the final admission. Few of the IIMs give more weightage to the girl aspirants as well.
Work Experience.
5 to 10% weightage is given to the students having supervisory experience of around 3 years plus.
Question: What are the CAP 2025 centres?Answer: Most probably CAP centres are as follows:
Question: How to participate in CAP 2025?Answer:After the declaration of CAT result, the shortlisted candidates can check the information about the CAP 2025 dates on the website of particular IIM. Shortlisted candidates will also be informed through email.
Question: Which IIM conducts IIM CAP?Answer:  IIM Kashipur is conduting the CAP process this year.
Question: Which IIMs are the part of CAP process?Answer: In 2025 nine IIMs will participating in the IIM CAP process. These are:
IIM Jammu,
IIM Bodh Gaya,
IIM Raipur,
IIM Kashipur,
IIM Sambalpur,
IIM Ranchi,
IIM Trichy,
IIM Sirmaur
IIM Udaipur.
Question: What is the eligibility for IIM CAP?Answer: Same as CAT eligibility criteria i.e. the aspirants need to have secured 50 percent marks in total aggregate graduation for reserved it is 45 percent.
Question: What is the CAT cutoff for General category candidates under IIM CAP?Answer: IIM CAP cutoff for General category candidate in 93 percentile (overall). Sectional cutoff for QA is 70 percentile, DILR- 70 percentile and VARC- 70 percentile.
Question: When is IIM CAP process conducted?Answer: IIM CAP process is conducted after the declaration of CAT result.
Question: Which new or baby IIMs are not participating in CAP process?Answer: IIM Nagpur, IIM Visakhapatnam and IIM Amritsar is not participating in CAP process.
How To Select Non-IIM Colleges After CAT
What is the scope of PGDM
Check Your Admission chance in IIMs Based on your profile
Click to check MBA ROI of any Business School
Know your chance of getting selected in IIMs/Non-IIMs
IIM Cut-off
--- https://mbaroi.in/cat/wat-pi-for-iims/
WAT And PI For Top IIMs?
How Should I Prepare For WAT And PI For Top IIMs?
Before we start inspecting the elements of good performances in Written Ability Test and Personal interviews (WAT-PI at IIMs), here is a small catch-phrase for the candidates. “The aim of an argument, or discussion, should not be victory, but progress” – Joseph Joubert
WAT and PI are an important part of MBA selection process; it aims at a candidate’s personality assessment. This is your test for leadership skills, problem-solving abilities, and communication skills. Your performance depends much on the clarity of your thoughts and how you balance between the things that you should say and what you should not say in the interviews. Not just IIMs, but the top B-schools depend much on these rounds to judge candidates’ abilities.
This article will help you with some brilliant tips from MBA toppers and mentors so that you can give your best shot when in front of the board.
Components on Which You Are Judged in IIMs WAT-PI Round
Remember, that this is an unsurpassed chance of achieving admission to your preferred college. Begin with understanding, why WAT/PI is conducted by IIMs and top B-Schools. Every candidate is unique and you must ponder your strengths to give the best. The panelists are looking specifically for the below-mentioned capabilities in candidates when shortlisting them for admissions.
Ability to Communicate
Leadership
Group Dynamics
Attitude & Aptitude
Listening Skills and open-mindedness
Confidence
Presentation skills
Decision making
Problem Solving
Analytical skills
Interpersonal skills
How to Perform Better In WAT and PI Rounds?
This is about writing an essay inside recommended word limit, articulating your view and knowledge on the topic given. Though, the essay writing assessment, the simple it may look, is in reality hard to crack bearing in mind the ratio of aspirants and seats. One needs to make sure that the script is grammatically accurate, rich in vocabulary, driven by facts and figures, and depicts oneself as an appropriate manager of the future.
Also Read: Written Ability Test: WAT Topics and Preparation Tips
Start preparing for WAT immediately after the CAT Exam.
Being part of mock WAT sessions is a great way of working on your weaknesses and strengths. Feedback from each WAT session contributes a lot. Firstly, you get more insights into the topics, and secondly, you know how to conduct yourself in the WAT. This includes understanding the topic and presenting your thoughts.
However, there is no replacement for the knowledge. Since knowledge is the key, make reading a habit. Read popular magazines, newspapers, blogs, etc., and stay informed of current affairs.
Understand the topic well and make notes of your ideas before phrasing them to the essay.
Be mindful of not being diverted from the topic and do not repeat the points. Your ideas and thoughts should come out to be logical and to the point.
PI is a face-to-face interface between the interview panel and the candidate. Normally, the questions related to the background, lifestyle, experiences of the candidates are discussed here. The panel at this point tries to evaluate if the candidate has enough capabilities and skills to successfully pursue an MBA career.
Share your answer with utter confidence and drive the interview in the direction you desire and make you comfortable.
Try to be part of as many PIs as possible and prepare well for the general questions. Questions like, why you chose MBA, your strengths-weaknesses, short-term long-term goals, etc. are very commonly asked questions.
Mock interviews help you understand how to deliver what you think. The feedback from mock is very valuable in bringing out a better version of yourself.
Your willingness to learn and your smartness are valued a lot by the interviewers.
If the PIs are not going as you planned, do not get disheartened. Let it not affect the next questions and conversations. Be tough, confident, and honest with a strong positive outlook.
Statement of Purpose is required by a few IIMs. This is mostly about your personal data and you can mention your achievements, career goals, and how you can contribute to your B-school while trying to achieve your goals. A range of information relating to your name, places where you lived, the Governors and CM names, extracurricular interests, and reasons for poor academics, and more are asked in the SOP.
Prepare well for current affairs, trends, and opinion-based questions. Invest a lot of time in knowledge sessions so that you could tackle different types of questions. IIMs ask general knowledge questions like the name of the Deputy Prime Minister, Vice President, etc. Technology disruptions are also one of the liked questions of the interviewers.
Also Read: Personal Interview: Tips to Crack PI, Types of Question Asked in PI
The freshers should prepare well on topics from your curriculum, college and internship projects. Experienced candidates need to have a fair view of everything you do in your job profile. Present your roles, responsibilities, contributions, business environments, competitions, and initiatives, as soon as you get a chance.  Know who your company CEO, Business Unit Heads are. Study and have an insight on vision and mission statements, core values of your company, its revenue, acquisitions/mergers and Sales, Profit and Loss, etc.
If you have been shortlisted for an MBA interview from IIMs or any top B-schools, go through the complete checklist of do’s and don’ts in WAT-PI before attending the interview.
Know Thyself- Your strengths and weaknesses
Work on Knowledge boosters. If you wish, you can subscribe to our website or enroll in various personalized programs from coaching institutes.
Practice mocks daily for getting smarter in your interactions.
Take your mock interactions seriously and work on them
Being well prepared is the key to faring well in your test rounds. Confidence and composure only comes from a good preparation level. Do not fear personal interviews, focus on standing out and find out your unique traits to use them effectively.
All the best for the WAT-PI round at IIMs!
Related Popular Articles:
Group Discussion: GD Types, Do's & Don'ts, Trending Topics
Common Admission Process (CAP) 2022
IIM Written Ability Test (WAT)
Top MBA Colleges Accepting MAT Score
How to select the right MBA college?
Total Number of Seats in IIMs 2021
--- https://mbaroi.in/cat/cat-answer-key/
Cat Answer Key
CAT 2023 Answer Key
CAT 2023 was held on the 26th of November and the CAT ‘Answer Key’ was published on 5 December 2023. It helps candidates, calculate their tentative CAT scores and have an idea about the institutes where they can place their applications and get a call for an MBA. Here are a few details on the ‘CAT Answer Key’ release, which may assist you in making sensible decisions ahead of time.
When the CAT Answer Key will Release?
The answers to the CAT exams were released on 5 December. The Answer is published on the official website of IIM CAT in a downloadable PDF format.
The purpose of the release of Answer Key is to ensure transparency, by allowing candidates to check and match their answers with the actual answers to ascertain, how many correct answers they obtained. Answer Key also helps candidates to raise genuine queries against wrong answers. Once having scrutinized the objections raised by candidates, CAT Centre releases a final answer key before the CAT exam results.
The Answer Key can be downloaded by logging on to the IIM website with CAT login ID and password. Slot wise response sheet is released separately, so that the CAT exam takers can bring up & file objections, if any. The Answer Key can be challenged with a fee of Rs 1200 for each objection.
The Answer Key is available only to the candidates who have appeared for CAT 2023 exam. The key is only available for the question paper that the candidate attempted.
A final answer key has detailed solutions for three sections viz. VARC, DILR and QA
In the CAT Answer Key, CAT answers will be available for all the question sets of the CAT exam 2023.
Tentative Answer Key Dates
As the CAT exam ends, candidates get curious about the release of answer keys and results. The information is updated on iimcat.ac.in. timely. Going by the past dates, answer keys are released in about two to three days from the CAT examination and the CAT results
Steps to Download CAT Answer Key
STEP 1:  Login with your credentials (CAT ID and password) on the official website of IIM CAT.
STEP 2:  Your Personal CAT page appears next and you need to click the ‘Candidate Response’ tab to follow the instructions.
STEP 3:  Download your ‘Response Sheet’. You can check each question and its answer status (marked green). The document contains all correct answers, the answers that you marked, along with questions for the slot in which you appeared.
STEP 4:  For any objections, you can submit your doubts in the ‘Objection Form’.
To calculate CAT 2023 score with the help of answer key, follow the below steps:
For every correct answer, allot 3 marks.
For every incorrect answer, 1 mark is deducted.
Subtract total marks deducted from the total marks scored, to get raw CAT score.
Also Read: What if your CAT Score is low?
The candidate Response tab and objection form will be active from 05th December 2023. Candidates will be able to see the Answer Key as well as their Individual Responses to Questions during this duration. Candidates should take necessary action before 08 Dec 2023 if they have any objection to the CAT answer key. Here are the steps to raise an objection against the answer key of the CAT Exam 2023.
Visit iimcat.ac.in and on the homepage, click on 'Candidate Login'
Enter your 'User ID' and 'Password' to access the answer key
Submit the objections, if any, and pay the objection fee
take the screenshot or download the filled form for future reference.
If the objections stand valid, corrective actions will be taken by IIMs.
In the meantime, candidates can also refer to the unofficial response sheet. Unofficial response sheets and answer keys are published by experts of top CAT coaching institutes. Candidates can use them to assess their CAT performance. The unofficial CAT answer keys can be retrieved online, on the respective websites of the coaching institutes. These may have some variations but you can still assess your tentative CAT exam scores.
Total Number of Seats in IIMs 2023
--- https://mbaroi.in/iim-call-predictor/
IIM & Non-IIM Call Predictor | CAT college Predictor - 2024
CAT is among the toughest entrances in India and the most prestigious for management education. The CAT exam brings the opportunity for candidates to secure seats in some of the top MBA colleges in India. Scoring good marks in this examination can lead their career to new heights as some of the CEOs of top companies are CAT toppers.  CAT 2024 will happen on 24 November 2024 and predicting the result of it sounds weird right?  Well no, with our CAT college predictor tool, we can predict the names of IIM& Non-IIM colleges where you can get a call.
IIM & NON-IIM COLLEGE PREDICTOR is a tool where the MBA aspirants get to generate a list of colleges where they could apply based on their performance in the CAT exam. MBAROI's IIM call/college predictor takes into account your profile, previous works & CAT scores to predict your eligibility & chances of getting a call from 1000+ IIM & Non IIM MBA Colleges. After taking all the data from you it will compare the profile with other students who are going to fight CAT exam with you. In the backend, some calculations are performed based on some significant factors such as the candidate's CAT percentile, previous years cut-offs, academic profile, diversity, work experience etc.
With the help of this tool in some steps “IIM and Non-IIM Call Predictor" will compare IIM eligibility criteria with aspirants’ profile parameters, to ascertain the colleges from where they can get calls for WAT/GD-PI round .
How does the  IIM Call predictor work?
Click on 'Start Predicting' tab.
You will be required to 'sign up' if you are not already registered. Once you have logged in, you will be directed to fill the requisite details.
Input Verbal and Reading Comprehension percentile rank (PVRC), Data Interpretation & Logical Reasoning percentile rank, Quantitative Aptitude percentile rank (PQA), Overall percentile rank (PT) and Category. Click tab ‘Next’ on the page.
On the new page input 10th Exam Percentage, 12th Exam Stream, 12th Exam Percentage. Click tab ‘Next’ on the page
On the Next page select your Graduation Category, Graduation Percentage and Work Experience and click on 'SHOW COLLEGE' tab.
The Call Predictor will now fetch and present the list of college where you have chances.
Benefits of  IIM Call Predictor
With this IIM call predictor candidates do not have to wait till January for knowing about their calls, they may start gearing up for next rounds even before.
Contenders get a personalized report that will contain recommended college for them based on their ranks and background.
Filter college based on location, specialization, fee structure, average/highest packages and the IIRF ranks of college for 2024.
Also Check: MBA Admission Predictor
Learn more about Group Discussion Topics
How to Get Admission into an IIM?
IIMs or Indian Institutes of Management are the top institutes of management education in India and created by an act of Parliament. Right now there are 21 IIMs in India offering various PGP/MBA/PGDM and Ph.D. programs.  In 2023, almost 2.88 lakh students appeared in the exam for admission to these institutes. How to get into an IIM? To get into an IIM you need to undergo a three-step process, on completion the final selection offer is made.
First, one need to appear for the Common Aptitude Test or CAT Exam conducted by the IIMs in case of Indian citizens. For foreigners GMAT is taken into consideration.
After clearing the required cut-offs and the composite score, a candidate is called for Written Test/ Group Discussion and  Personal Interview (PI). At this time the aspirants need to provide two letters of recommendation from people who know them closely for academic and professional validation.
The final admission offer to the aspirants in all categories is made on the basis of the final aggregate score, taking into account various weights such as work experience, gender, school board etc.
IIM Cut Off 2024
CAT 2024 Exam Date
--- https://mbaroi.in/cat-mock-test/
Cat Mock Test
CAT Mock Test - 2024
STEPS TO TAKE CAT MOCK TEST
Official CAT 2024 Mock Test is released by IIM-B. This year many changes have been done to enable the aspirants to acquaint themselves with different types of questions. Questions generally asked in CAT are (MCQs/ Non-MCQs) and the navigation guide is also incorporated to know how to attempt the questions on the CAT 2024 exam day.
On releasing the CAT Mock Test 2024, IIM Bangalore has explained, “The objective of this Mock Test is not to disclose the exam pattern for CAT 2024 and the actual exam may or may not contain similar type or number of questions. Please note that CAT 2024 will have a total duration of 120 minutes for the non-PwD candidate (40 minutes each for three sections). The PwD candidates will be given 40 minutes extra.”
The mock test will make the aspirants understand how the actual question paper may look like.
Also Read:- MBA Admission Predictor
In this article we will talk on the main changes announced by IIMs in CAT exam and what may be the expected changes that IIMs have not announced in the CAT official Mock Test :
CAT 2024 official Mock Test is planned with a total duration of 120 minutes for the non-PwD candidates. PwD candidates will have the option to complete the entire test with all three sections, within a maximum of 160 minutes.
The official CAT mock Test is divided into three sections:
Verbal Ability and Reading Comprehension (VARC),
Data Interpretation and Logical Reasoning (DILR)
Quantitative Ability (QA).
All the above sections will be placed in the CAT question paper in the same sequence as above. Following will be the question numbers:
Section
Topic
No. of Questions
IVerbal Ability and Reading Comprehension (VARC)26
IIData Interpretation and Logical Reasoning (DILR)24
IIIQuantitative Ability (QA)26
The actual time for every section will be 40 minutes and after 40 minutes one can’t go back to the section and that particular sanction will be locked and your response will be auto-submitted. Thereafter, you need to go to the next section immediately.
The test will have both the sections i.e. MCQs and NON MCQs.
The summary of answers will be displayed on the screen upon submission of all sections.
The CAT mock test needs to be attempted on the CAT IIM site only. This can’t be downloaded and answers are not provided. You need to get the answers yourself.
Exact number of questions in CAT has not been disclosed by IIMs and mock test is just indicative.
This is expected that this year there could be somewhere between 65 to 70 questions in CAT 2024.
IIM Ahmedabad to Synchronise Reduced Time with Reduced No. of Questions
Last year in 2020, on account of Covid-19, the total time was cut down to two hours from three and the questions were reduced from 100 to 76.
Alos Read: Download CAT Previous Year Papers
The time limitation in 2020 CAT was more than earlier, therefore IIM-A has decided to additionally reduce the number of questions to rationalise the reduced time.
Let’s see the trend of time and total questions in the following table:
CAT 2024 results will be accepted by all IIMs, FMS-DU, MDI , IMI, IMT, Great Lakes, LIBA, TAXILA, NITIE, JBIMS, and many more Top business schools across India.
--- https://mbaroi.in/cat-result/
CAT 2024 result will be declared in the second week of January 2025 by IIM Calcutta. This year around 3 Lakh+ students will appear in the CAT exam.
The moment of truth has come for all the CAT aspirants. CAT exam result will help them in admission in  top MBA Colleges of India. CAT 2024 Exam has been completed on 26 November 2024. Like earlier candidates can visit the IIM's official website iimcat.ac.in to check their results. They just need to login into the result portal with their CAT user id and password.
Check Your Chances of Getting into IIMs - IIM Call Predictor
CAT 2024 RESULT DETAILS & ANALYSIS:
HOW TO CHECK CAT 2024 RESULT
CAT IMPORTANT DATES
STEPS REQUIRED TO DOWNLOAD THE CAT SCORE CARD.
CAT RESULT HIGHLIGHTS
CAT 2024 PERCENTILE CALCULATION
WHAT IS THE CAT NORMALIZATION PROCESS?
WHAT AFTER CAT Written Exam Result?
WHAT IS COMMON ADMISSION PROCESS?
CAT 2024 RESULT & DETAILS & ANALYSIS:
CAT 2024 exam paper difficulty level was moderate to high. Our expert's analyzed the paper carefully and stated that the exam level 2024 exam was somewhere tougher than the 2021 exam.  It may possbile the qulaifying cutofff of CAT will be not higher as previous years cutoff. Soon after the announcement of the exam results of CAT, IIM also releases a list of toppers.
All the aspirants need to notice that IIMs will take the normalization process into consideration while calculating percentile. It can make a slight difference in the final result. Apart from 20 IIMs the management department of 7 Indian Institute of Technology and 1000 more management institute accept CAT scores. All the IIMs will separately release the list of qualifying cutoffs on the basis of some factors such as - the number of applicants, seat availability, exam level, and more.
Aspirants Name
Roll number
Category
Scaled Score and Percentile of every section
Overall Scaled Score and Overall Percentile
This score card is valid for one year that means till  December 21, 2025  for the admission to different Business Schools. The shortlisting for IIMs will start after the result announcement. Call letters for WAT & PI will be sent by individual IIM as still there is no centralised admission process.
CAT result website:   iimcat.ac.in
Exam Conducting body:	IIM Ahmedabad
How to check CAT 2024 Result?
CAT result via CAT login required Credentials :  CAT ID and password
CAT scorecard 2024 validity : One year till December 21, 2025
Scorecard of CAT 2024 used for : MBA/PGDM Admissions in IIMs, IITs and many other top MBA colleges in India including Great Lakes, TAPMI, FMS, MDI, IMT, IMI, SPJIMR, Taxila etc.
CAT 2024 IMPORTANT DATES
CAT Exam  results will be declared on second week of January 2025. Below are the important CAT 2024 Dates:
Step 1: Visit iimcat.ac.in, the official website for CAT.
Step 2: Click on link ‘CAT Result Tab’ and enter CAT user ID and password created during CAT exam registration. You will be logged in.
Step 3: Click on the ‘IIM CAT Score Card’ link, CAT exam result 2024 will appear on the screen.
Step 4: Download CAT 2024 scorecard.
Apart from the website students are also intimated on registered mobile number through SMS and on email as well.
CAT Exam result will be available on the official website of CAT exam. As per the official notification the CAT 2024 result is announced on Second week of January 2025.
The same day of the declaration of the result, an SMS is sent to all aspirants mentioning that the result has been announced. On the same day, the CAT Scorecard downloading time will also be declared, only after that students can download their scorecards.
The calculation of CAT percentile includes three steps: Generally as per the CAT exam syllabus and pattern for the last few years, three marks are given for each correct answer and one mark is deducted for every incorrect answer. Marks are not deducted for any wrong answer in NON MCQ section.
Step 1: Individually applicant’s score is first evaluated section-wise and then the overall score is made by totalling the section-wise scores.
Step 2: Afterward, these section-wise and overall scores (raw scores) are normalized to arrive at a scaled CAT score.
Step 3: The normalized scores are changed into percentiles which are reported on the CAT scorecard.
CAT Percentile Calculation - 2024
To calculate the CAT percentile, the scaled scores are used. The procedure of computing percentiles for the exam result remains the same for all sections. The higher percentile, the better is the chances of selection. The process mentioned below will be used to calculate CAT 2024 percentile.
Step 1: Add the total number of applicants appeared for CAT in the morning, afternoon, and evening shifts. Let’s say Total no. of candidates = N
Step 2: Assign rank = R, on the basis of the scaled scores obtained by candidates in VARC (can take any of the three) sections of all candidates who have appeared for CAT 2024. If two or more candidates will get same scaled scores in the VARC section, identical ranks are assigned to them. That means, if two candidates get the highest scaled score in the VARC section, then both candidates will be assigned rank 1. Candidate(s) obtaining the second-highest scaled score in the VARC section will be assigned a rank of 3.
Step 3: Then compute the percentile score (P) of an applicant with rank (r) in the VARC section as mentioned below: P = (N-r)/ N) *100
Step 4: Finally round off the computed percentile score (P). This is done up to two decimal points. To cite an example, all CAT percentile scores greater than or equal to 99.995 are rounded off to 100, all percentile scores greater than or equal to 99.985 but firmly less than 99.995 are rounded off to 99.99, and so on.
Also Check: IIM Admission Predictor | CAT College Predictor | MBA ROI Calculator
The CAT test is conducted in different slots, a normalization process is done where the marks of every candidate is scaled to bring equity in the marking process. The normalization process of CAT is a well-known exercise being followed for last couple of years to assess the performance of a candidate across multiple sessions.
What are the parameters taken into consideration for CAT normalization?
Highest score
Lowest score
Mean score
Median score
Top 10 percentiles
Lowest 10 percentiles
After the result is declared, the candidates who meet the minimum CAT cut off criteria will be informed via an email by the individual IIMs for next step in selection process. Every IIM sends personal interview invitation letters to the shortlisted candidates directly through email/speed post. The shortlisting criteria varies from IIMs to IIMs. Generally, the IIMs follow the selection procedure which includes the following rounds:
Written Ability Test (WAT)
Group Discussion (GD)
Personal Interview (PI)
The new IIMs have a common selection procedure, called as Common Admission Process (CAP). Students need to register separately for CAP once the minimum CAP cut-off percentile is released by the CAP conducting body. The final selection of the aspirant for MBA admissions is done on the basis of various parameters such as CAT score, academic history, work experience, academic diversity, gender diversity, and performance in WAT/GD-PI.
Visit for CAT Result 2024 Percentile & Score Card at download link
Question: When will the CAT 2024 result be declared?
Answer:  As per the official notification the CAT 2024 result is announced on Second week of January 2025.
Question: Will I receive the CAT result through SMS on mobile?
Answer:   Yes, CAT result declaration announcement will be sent to every CAT exam applicant through SMS on their registered mobile number; SMS will not show the CAT scores.
Question: What is the difference in CAT score and CAT percentile?
Answer:   CAT scores are the marks gained by applicants as per the marking scheme, while percentile reflects the position got by applicants.
Question: Is there any age limit for CAT? What is the age limit for CAT?
Answer:   There is no age limit for appearing in CAT.
Question: Till when can I download my CAT 2024 scorecard from the website?
Answer:   Till December 21, 2024.
Question: When will CAT cutoffs will be announced?
Answer:   Official CAT cutoff 2024 will be announced along with result. The respective IIMs will start the shortlisting process after 2-3 days of releasing of the result.
Question: How is the re-evaluation or re checking of CAT result 2024 done?
Answer:    Not Possible. There is no provision of CAT re checking. One need to appear for Next year.
Question: If I do not clear the minimum CAT cut off, will I still eligible for IIM admissions?
Answer:   No, in order to appear for IIM admission process, candidates will have to clear the specified cut off. Candidates can apply to some other B-Schools for MBA admission on the basis of CAT scorecard.
Question: What is the validity of CAT scorecard?
Answer:   CAT scorecard is valid for one year only.
IIM Common Asmission Process (CAP)
IIM Waitlist Movement: Meaning and Past Trends
--- https://mbaroi.in/mba-roi-calculator/
What is ROI for an MBA?
ROI means Return on Investment. In simple words this means how fast you recover your investments on a product.
Calculation of the ROI of an MBA is a little complicated process.
As neither MBA is a tangible product nor your career. After MBA you keep on earning for your whole life and the enhancement of your earnings is directly linked with the reputation of your MBA institute.
The value you generate through your specialization knowledge, skills you learned during the MBA program, networking made, and the application of your knowledge, you have gained during your college days and thereafter.
So, the ROI of an MBA should be seen as how much social and economic status you achieve in your life.
A relatively higher cost of an MBA usually corresponds to better learning and career prospects. It may lead to a slightly lower ROI in the short run but would lead to a much greater life-long earning and career satisfaction.
There are 100s of ways suggested on internet to calculate MBA Return on Investment (ROI).
Most of them suggest divide the total cost of an MBA with an average salary as offered to the students of that particular B School. How misleading this MBA ROI figure could be!
For example business School -'A' with a Fee of Rs. 3.0 Lakh, offering an average salary of Rs. 3.0 Lakh will have an ROI of 1 year while another business School- 'B' with a Fee of Rs. 15 Lakh, offering an average salary of Rs. 10.0 Lakh have an ROI of 1.5 years. All possible calculations on the web suggest School 'A' is better. This is misleading!
Calculate How Soon You Will Become Crorepati or Millionaire
Here we have adopted a practical approach by calculating which PGDM/MBA institute makes you crorepati faster.
After discussions with heads of a couple of elite Business Schools, we worked out the method of MBA ROI calculation. And it is simple. Best School is the one who makes you crorepati or Millionaire in less number of years. Considering the above example School – B will make you crorepati in almost 6 years whereas for School-A this duration could be 15 years.
We have taken into consideration almost all possible variables which include:
Opportunity cost: This is the salary you were earning before starting your MBA, keep it Zero in case you were a fresher and not opting for Job for the next 2 years.
Tuition Fee: This is the cost of doing your MBA without Boarding and lodging, which in any case you need to bear whether you do or don’t do an MBA.
Interest on Loan: We have included the interest on loan and EMIs on that.
0
Colleges
Calculations
College Predictions
ROI of an MBA is highly misleading:
In fact, many MBAs do earn more money after graduation. Across the business, MBA salaries are high. And for graduates of elite Business Schools, they are very high. At the same time, yet, there are significant costs associated with pursuing an MBA which might ranges from Rs 3.0 Lakhs to 30 Lakhs in India for two years. And surprisingly tuition fees for top MBA/PGDM programs in India and abroad continue to rise. The number of aspirants every year is growing. For many, paying for Business School means taking on the loan, which can hang on for five to ten years. For full-timer MBAs, there’s also an enormous opportunity cost linked with taking time off from work and this happens usually during prime working years to pursue an MBA.
--- https://mbaroi.in/cmat/
About Cmat Exam
About CMAT Exam
CMAT Result 2024
Latest Update on 2025 Exam
NTA released the official notification of the CMAT 2025 exam on 14th November 2024.
Registration for CMAT 2025 started on 14th November 2025 and remains open till 15th December 2025.
More than 1350 AICTE approved  top MBA colleges of India will accept the CMAT result for admission.
Innovation and entrepreneurship is the latest edition in the CMAT syllabus. In total 20 questions will be asked from this section. It has a 20% weightage in the exam this year. Added 2 years ago as an optional subject but currently mandatory for the aspirants
Candidates have to pay an amount of 2000/- INR to register themselves for the CMAT exam.
The medium of exam will remain English in 2025 same as previous year.
CMAT Admit card will be available for download from 20th January 2025 and on 17th Jan. NTA will announce the exam cities.
The CMAT 2025 exam will be held on the 25th of January 2025.
Exam timing is not out but the duration of the exam will be similar to last year which is 180 minutes.
The last notification officially mentions no correction or no request will be considered by the NTA as it is already late in the CMAT exam.
CMAT website has been changed its "https://exams.nta.ac.in/CMAT/" the official website for CMAT.
What is CMAT Exam?
CMAT stands for Common Management Admission Test. CMAT entrance exam conducted by the National Testing Agency (NTA) on behalf of the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE). CMAT is conducted for admission to various management programs (MBA/PGDM) in B-schools across India.This MBA Entrance exam is conducted in 3 Hours(180 Minutes). The CMAT Exam question paper consists of 100 questions from Quantitative Techniques & Data Interpretation, Logical Reasoning, Language Comprehension, General Awareness and  Innovation & Entrepreneurship. Numerous B-schools and management  colleges accept CMAT scores for admission to their MBA and PGDM programs.
Important Updates of CMAT Exam 2025
CMAT Exam Pattern 2025: Duration, Sectional Composition & Scoring Pattern
The Medium of question paper will be in english only
Important Note:
The CMAT 2025 test paper has a time duration of 3 hours & consists of 5 sections.
Each question carries 04 (four) marks.
For each incorrect answer one (01) mark will be deducted from the total score.
To answer a question, the candidates are required to select one option corresponding to the correct option showing on the screen.
However, after the process of challenges of the key, if more than one option is found to be correct then the multiple correct options will be given the four marks (+4). Any incorrect option marked will be given the penalty of minus one mark (-1). Unanswered/Unattempt will be given no marks. In case, a question is dropped/ignored, all candidates will be given four marks (+4) irrespective of the fact whether the question has been attempted or not attempted by the candidate.
CMAT Exam 2025: Marking Scheme
Exam Result
The CMAT result is typically declared within 7 to 10 days from the date of the exam, usually in the afternoon. Candidates can download the score card from the official website of NTA CMAT.
CMAT Admission Process
After the CMAT 2025 exam, colleges/institutes shortlist candidates based on their CMAT scorecard marks.
All shortlisted candidates are then required to appear for Group Discussion (GD) and Personal Interview (PI) rounds as scheduled by the institute.
The final admission decision is based on the weightage assigned by the institute to CMAT scores, performance in GD/PI rounds, and the availability of seats.
Que.  What is the CMAT Exam?
Ans.  CMAT is a computer-based online aptitude exam conducted by NTA. CMAT scores is accepted by all AICTE approved colleges in India for admission in MBA/PGDM courses.
Que. What is CMAT Eligibility?
Ans. Any final year student who is an Indian citizen is eligible to give the CMAT exam. They need to obtain a bachelors degree from any recognised university of India. Read more about the CMAT eligibility.
Que. What is the CMAT 2025 Exam Date?
Ans. NTA has released the exam date for CMAT 2025 and the exam will held on 25th January 2025.
Que. Is CMAT Compulsory for MBA?
Ans.  NO, CMAT is not compulsory for MBA Admission. But if you are looking to take admission in AICTE approved colleges then you need give the CMAT exam for admission in Management courses.
Que. Which college accepts CMAT scores?
Ans. More than 1350 top MBA/PGDM colleges in India accept the CMAT score for admission in MBA/PGDM courses. Some of them are Taxila Business School , Jamnalal Bajaj Institute of Management Studies, IMT Nagpur, and many more. Check out the list of top MBA colleges accepting CMAT Score.
Best Books for CMAT Preparation
Top MBA colleges accepting CMAT Score, Cutoff
What is PGDM and how to get through?
--- https://mbaroi.in/cmat/cmat-exam-date/
CMAT Important Dates
T
It is expected that similat to the last year exam will be conducted in two shifts 09:00 A.M. to 12 Noon and 02:30 P.M. to 05:30 PM respectively. Although NTA will release the details about Exam Timings soon. Within 7-10 days of the exam, we can expect the announcement of the  CMAT 2024 Result. CMAT Exam is accepted by more than 1350 Top MBA colleges in India. Last year the CMAT exam was conducted on 4th May and this year exam will held on 15th May which is a slight delay due to elections. All the aspirants are advised to visit MBAROI.in for the latest update regarding the CMAT exam.
Important Dates for CMAT 2024 EXAM
As CMAT registration dates are closed the candidates are left less than a half months for their exam preparation. It's the final stage and aspirants have to put their best foot forward to score big in the marks. Try to solve CMAT previous year's papers and mock tests so that you can improve your speed. Solving more papers allows you to manage your time in the exam. This kind of practice will strengthen your weak areas, and you will also be able to improve your rank. Before starting preparation kindly check the CMAT exam syllabus. A good rank in CMAT 2024 Exam enables the opportunities for the candidates to have admission in some of the top MBA/PGDM colleges of India.
FAQs on CMAT Exam Date
Q. What is the exam date of CMAT 2025?
Ans. CMAT 2025 exam will be held on 25th January 2025 in two shifts 09:00 A.M. to 12 Noon and 02:30 P.M. to 05:30 PM respectively.
Q. When will the CMAT registration start?
Ans. Registration for CMAT 2025 has been started from 14th November and remain open till 13th December 2025.
Q. When will the CMAT result declare?
Ans. CMAT results may be declared on the Second week of Feb. 2025. It is an expected date based on the news coming and previous trends of exams.
Q. What is the last date of form correction in CMAT 2025?
Ans. The form correction window of CMAT 2025 will open on 15th December 2025 and remain open till 17th December, 2024.
--- https://mbaroi.in/cmat/cmat-admit-card/
CMAT Admit Card - 2024
NTA has closed the registration for the CMAT 2024 examination and released the exam date- 15th May 2024. Only the release date of the CMAT admit card are not announced and will be disclosed by them later.  As per the trends of admit card release it is expected that in the first week of May 2024, the admit card will be available for download for all the registered applicants. As per the notification CMAT will be conducted on 15th May 2024 and form correction window has already closed on 26th April, March, 2024. Candidate can download their admit card by using the Login ID and Password generated during the  CMAT 2024 Registration.
Since only three months are left in the exam.
All the candidates need to speed up their exam preparation. Aspirants can solve the CMAT last year's papers, and understand and read the topics of the CMAT Syllabus.
How to Download CMAT Admit Card
Details in Admit Card
Errors to check-in Admit card
Documents To Carry With Admit Card of CMAT Exam 2024
Problems in Download CMAT Admit Card
Instruction for CMAT Exam
FAQs
CMAT exam center cities
How to Download CMAT Admit Card?
Follow the steps below to download the admit cards:
Visit NTA-CMAT official website: https://cmat.nta.nic.in/
Enter Login Credentials. CMAT Application Number, Date of birth and Security Pin is required for login. Keep them at hand.
Enter "registration ID" and "password"
Click the "Submit" Tab.
The CMAT Admit Card Appears on the next Screen
Take a print out
How to recover CMAT login id and password?
If you have misplaced your login credentials, they can be retrieved. Follow the below stated steps to recover login details:
Click on the “Forgot Password” tab.
Select from one of the options for password retrieval given to you below:
You can use a security question option and then answer it. This security question would have been created during registration.
Else use a verification code sent to you on your registered mobile number.
You can also reset your password, using the password reset link that will be sent to your registered email address.
Choose any of the above options and create a new password for login.
Yet, in case of candidates are not able to download Admit Cards from the website or there is any discrepancy in details punched on the Admit Card, approach the CMAT Help-Line between 10:00 am to 5:00 PM.
Details in  Admit Card
Name of The Candidate
Roll Number
Father's Name
Gender
Photograph
Signature
Application Number
Date and Time of Exam
Reporting Time and Venue for Exam
Self-Declaration for COVID-19
CMAT exam related instructions
Errors to check-in  Admit card
Check your  Admit Card thoroughly after downloading, for any factual or spelling errors. The slightest error may deem the Admit Card invalid barring the candidate from entering the exam hall.
Check these errors on the admit card:
Name of the candidate on the Admit Card must be the same as it is mentioned on the CMAT application form.
Correct exam date, time and venue must be printed on the Admit Card.
Your image on the Admit Card must be clear and visible.
CMAT 2024 registration date should be the same on the Admit Card, as is printed on the application form.
In case you spotted an error in the Admit Card, contact the CMAT exam helpline at 0120-3946612 between 9:30 am and 5:30. You can also send mail at cmat@nta.ac.in.
Here is a list of documents you must carry to the CMAT examination centre on the day of the  exam.
2 copies of the admit card
Valid photo ID proof - original and photocopy. Carry any of the below documents for proof of Identity:
Aadhar Card
Driving License
CMAT 2023 registration date should be the same on the Admit Card, as is printed on the application form.
Problems in Download Admit Card
Certain types of errors and issues are common while downloading Admit Cards. Stated below are problems and resolutions faced by candidates during Admit Card download.
Incorrect Login Credentials
Double-check the details entered on the login window to make sure that no problems arise.
Forgotten Password
If the candidate forgets the password, it can be retrieved by following the steps mentioned in the head- How to download CMAT admit card? above.
Sluggish Internet
Make sure that your internet connection speed is good at the time of download for a successful document download.
Server Not Responding Error
This is very likely to occur due to heavy traffic. Logout and try to download the Admit Card later.
Forgot CMAT Application Number
Click on "Find application number" on NTA Website. Enter the details prompted for. (Candidate Name, Mother Name, Date of Birth, Father Name, and Security Pin) . Click on ‘Get application number’.
The Admit Card also contains the below-stated exam day instructions. Read the instructions on the admit card carefully to avoid any inconveniences during the exam.
Here are some important points to note.
Be at the exam centre two hours before the exam begins.
For the first slot of the exam, entry to the exam centre will not be permitted after 07:30 AM and 01:30 PM for the second slot of the exam.
No baggage can be carried inside the test centre.
Carry personal hand sanitiser, personal transparent water bottle, sugar tablets/fruits and a blue or black transparent ball-point pen.
Sign the admit card only inside the exam hall in front of the invigilator.
Instruments, geometry, handbag, purse, pencil box, paper, stationery, any printed material, eatables, mobile phone, other gadgets, any metallic items, cannot be carried to the exam hall.
Que.  When will the CMAT Admit card release?
Ans.  National Test Agnecy will release the admit card in the final week of April 2024.
Que. How can I download CMAT admit card?
Ans. Visit the official website of NTA-CMAT https://exams.nta.ac.in/CMAT/. Enter the login credentials, submit and download the CMAT admit card. Click here to know more about CMAT 2023 Admit card
Que. How do I know my CMAT roll number?
Ans.  Go to the offical website and click on the option of "Find CMAT application number" tab. After that enter your name, Father name,Mother name, Date of birth and the security pin. Click on the "get application number" tab and now you can see your CMAT roll number.
Que.  What if there is an error in the CMAT Admit Card?
Ans.  In case of an error on the  admit card, you can reach out to the helpdesk and get it rectified before the exam day.
Que. Is CMAT good for MBA
Ans. CMAT exam score gives a chance to the students to take admission in some of the top mba colleges in India. CMAT exam result is accepted by more than 1300 colleges in India.
List of CMAT Exam Center Cities
Colleges acccepting CMAT Score
How to prepare for CMAT Exam
Best books for CMAT preparation
CMAT previous year papers
Top mba colleges accepting CMAT score
--- https://mbaroi.in/cmat/cmat-eligibility-criteria/
CMAT Exam Eligibility
The CMAT aspirant who has completed Graduation in any discipline or equivalent from a recognized university can apply to appear in the admission test.
Final year Graduation students are also eligible to apply for CMAT, given that they will present a passing certificate at the time of admission.
Candidate must a citizen of India.
There is no age restriction to appear in CMAT Entrance Exam.
There is no limitation on number of attempts. A candidate can give n number of attempts.
Get Latest MBA Exam Updates
Reservation Policy in CMAT Exam
As per the government norms 10% seats are reserved for General-Economically Weaker Section(GEN-EWS), 15% of the seats are reserved for Scheduled Caste (SC) and 7.5% for Schedule Tribe (ST) Candidates and 27% seats are reserved for Other Backward Classes belonging to the ‘non-creamy’ layer (NC-OBC).
No changes in the category will be entertained after CAT registration.
Autism, intellectual disability, specific learning disability and mental illness.
Multiple disabilities from amongst persons under clauses (a) to (d).
Other ‘specified disabilities’ mentioned in ‘The Schedule’ of the RPwD Act 2016.
Que.  What is the Eligibility Criteria for CMAT Exam?
Ans.  Any final year student who is an Indian citizen is eligible to give the CMAT exam. They need to obtain a bachelors degree from any recognised university of India. Read more about the CMAT eligibility.
Que. What is the Age limitation for CMAT?
Ans. There is no limitation on age of candidate. A candidate of any age can appear in this exam.
Que. What is the maximum number of attempts for CMAT?
Ans. There is no limitation on number of attempts. A candidate can give n number of attempts.
Que. What are the reservation policies for CMAT?
Ans.  As per the government norms 10% seats are reserved for General-Economically Weaker Section(GEN-EWS), 15% of the seats are reserved for Scheduled Caste (SC) and 7.5% for Schedule Tribe (ST) Candidates and 27% seats are reserved for Other Backward Classes belonging to the ‘non-creamy’ layer (NC-OBC).
Que. Minimum marks required to appear in CMAT?
Ans. As of now no minimum marks are required to appear in the exam. Aspirants just need to have a graduation degree from a government-recognised university in India.
--- https://mbaroi.in/cmat/cmat-syllabus/
CMAT 2025 Syllabus
Updated CMAT Exam Syllabus
CMAT 2025 exam syllabus consists of 5 Sections - Language Comprehension, Quantitative Techniques & Data Interpretation, Logical Reasoning, General Awareness, and Innovation & Entrepreneurship. Earlier the innovation and entrepreneurship section was not mandatory to answer for candidates. From now onwards this section also carries the same weightage in the exam. The CMAT syllabus is directed by the AICTE. In order to take admission to top MBA/PGDM colleges of India.
The duration of the exam is 3 hours(180 Minutes), and 20 questions come from each section consisting of 100 marks. For every right answer, the candidate gets 4 marks, and for every wrong question, 1 mark is deducted in CMAT exam. Careful analysis of the exam syllabus is the initial step for candidates before they start their cmat exam preparation.
Total number of questions: 100
No of Section:5 section (Language Comprehension, Quantitative Techniques & Data Interpretation Logical Reasoning, General Awareness, and Innovation & Entrepreneurship)
Maximum marks: 400
Total duration: 3 Hours
Negative marking: 1 Mark
Sectional Sub-division of CMAT Syllabus
Language Comprehension is divided into two parts - Verbal Ability and Reading Comprehension.
Quantitative Techniques & Data Interpretation also consists of two parts with Mathematics and Data Interpretation questions.
Logical Reasoning which has questions on various topics of Logical Reasoning.
General Awareness (GK) Section which covers current affairs, static GK, Business & Economy, International current affairs, Who's Who, Constitution of India, United Nations Organization among other key topics.
Innovation & Entrepreneurship section will ask questions related to innovation and entrepreneurship domain. In total 20 questions will be asked from this section which carries 80 marks in the exam.
All the sections have equal number of questions. In total 20 questions will be asked from each section. The CMAT exam syllabus for Quantitative Ability section is very wide and covers each topic in Mathematics with greater prominence on Arithmetic.
CMAT exam syllabus is based on the cmat previous year paper patterns which contain questions from all these sections.
Click here to know about  Best Books for CMAT Preparation
CMAT defines its Verbal Ability section as Language Comprehension. It covers comprehensive English test which includes the test of grammar, tenses, vocabulary, jumbled paragraphs and reading comprehension.
Dangling Modifiers
One-word substitution
Jumbled paragraphs
Inference-based Questions
Idioms
Sentence corrections
English usage corrections
Synonyms & Antonyms
Usage of Articles
Non-finites
Usage on Nouns & Pronouns, Adjectives, Adverbs, Prepositions –regular and followed, Verbs, Syntax, Subject-verb Agreement, Simple, continuous, Perfect tenses and Conditional-unreal past.
Verbal Ability
CMAT gives you briefer RC passages of 500-600 words. The passages are not exceedingly difficult passages. There is no fixed rule on framing the questions based on Reading comprehension passage, which is pursued by at least 4-5 questions each.
Questions could be any of following types:
Questions based on Inference
Questions based on the Central Idea of the passage
Questions based on phrases, idioms
Questions based on expression in the passage.
Questions in this section are individual.
Arithmetic-Ratio, Mixtures, Work, Average, Percentage, Time & speed, Profit and loss, Interest, Basic statistics
Number properties
Probability
Alligations & Mixtures
Partnership
Permutation and combination
Counting principles
Inequations
Geometry
Pipe & Cisterns
Algebra
Derivatives (Maxima-Minima)
Graph, Quardric and linear equation
Table and pie chart
Bar diagrams and graphs
Data Sufficiency
Data Comparison
Caselets
Charts
The section is a combination of the topics from arrangements like linear, seating, sequencing & arranging with conditions to coding.
Blood Relationship Test
Statement Arguments, Non-verbal reasoning, Statements Assumptions,
Number Series, Sequencing
Paradoxes
Figure Series
Sequencing
Statement-conclusion
Inferences
Logical puzzle,
Coding - Decoding
Numerical puzzle
Direction & Distance
Venn Diagram
Floor Puzzle
Cause & effect
True/false statements
Visual Reasoning
Number Series
Matrix Arrangements
This section in CMAT is divided into three parts.
Conventional GK
Current GK- based on current reading of newspapers and periodicals
Business & Economics GK – i.e. changes in Fiscal and Monetary policy, CRR, Repo Rate,
Devaluation and up valuation of Rupee.
Global summits and conferences
Business, National, and International events
Who’s who
Sports news, Personalities in News,
Biodiversity
Literature
Culture, Geography, History of India
Constitution of India
Currency and Capitals of the countries
States of India
International Organizations
Monetary and fiscal tools
Emblem
Identification of personalities, companies.
This section will ask questions related to innovation and entrepreneurship domain. In total 20 questions will be asked from this section which carries 80 marks in the exam. Earlier this section was optional to attempt but this year it is compulsory to solve this section.
Startups
Latest Innovation
Trends in Entrepreneurship
Role of Women in Entrepreneurship
Project Management
Management System Idea
Startups in India
Types & Framework of Entrepreneurship
Important Points about CMAT Exam 2025 Syllabus
The syllabus of CMAT 2025 is based on the information and guidelines prescribed by the AICTE and the structure that the exam currently follows.
CMAT Exam Syllabus has no boundaries.
This syllabus is developed after the careful analysis of recent updates in the exam structure. All the topics mentioned in this have appeared in the last year's question papers of CMAT.
Above mentioned exam Syllabus covers all the major topics in five test sections.
The key point in CMAT exam syllabus for MBA is that there is no repetition of CMAT questions in any CMAT exam although difficulty level of the questions in CMAT exam would not go out of CMAT exam syllabus.
It is difficult to proceed with the CMAT preparation without getting an idea of the syllabus. CMAT MBA exam syllabus is wide enough to stump anyone. So, it is advisable to go through the syllabus first and then decide on the preparation.
When to begin CMAT preparation?
How to prepare for CMAT?
What important topics to cover for a well-defined preparation?
Q. What is the exam syllabus of CMAT?
Ans. CMAT 2025 exam syllabus consists of 5 Sections - Language Comprehension, Quantitative Techniques & Data Interpretation, Logical Reasoning, General Awareness, and Innovation & Entrepreneurship.
Q. Is CMAT easy to crack?
Ans. No! CMAT is not easy to crack surely it consists of a wide syllabus. Candidates who are seeking admission to top MBA Colleges of India accepting CMAT scores have to score more than 90 percentile.
Q. How much weightage does each section carry in CMAT?
Ans. In the exam, all five section carries the same weight. 20 questions are asked from each section and every section consist of 80 marks.
Q. Is the Innovation and Entrepreneurship sections mandatory in the CMAT exam?
Ans. Yes, Innovation and entrepreneurship is a compulsory section in the exam. Marks of this section will take into consideration while calculating the percentile. Earlier this section comes as an optional section and solving this section is completely up to the candidates.
Q. What are some important topics of the CMAT syllabus?
Ans. Although all sections and topics are important from the exam point of view. But candidates can read arithmetic, reading comprehension, profit & loss, women in entrepreneurship, graphs,  current affairs, and business news for better preparation.
--- https://mbaroi.in/cmat/cmat-preparation/
CMAT Preparation
When to Begin CMAT Preparation?
The most suitable answer to this question is just now. Time is the most important feature of the CMAT exam preparation. Most candidates wait for the perfect or right time but there are no such things that exist in a competitive environment. If you're aiming to take admitted to top MBA colleges in India then you have to start your preparation in advance. Candidates are also required to do a careful analysis of themselves and find out the things such as their strong points, weakness, scoring areas, and time they can dedicate to the studies.
If you want to prepare for CMAT 2024 Exam, then identify present time as your opportunity and then understand the need to have a clear vision and clarity as to how you are going to achieve that particular objective. In order to crack that objective you need to define your milestones to achieve.
Exam registration has been closed on 23rd April 2024 and form correction window also closed on 26th April 2024. NTA released the CMAT exam date, amd exam will be conducted on the 15th May, 2024. So for all the aspirants, this is the right time to identify the opportunities and prepare can study plan. Before cracking any exam or achieving any milestone one needs to have a clear vision and a roadmap to achieve the desired result. Also, it helps in an analysis of your efforts and strategy. If one's efforts are not aligned with their strategy they are never able to achieve their goals.
Students who are in pre final year of their graduation
Students who are in their final year of graduation
Students who have finished their graduation
Most aspirants prepare for the written exam and negate the other aspect of the selection process - Group Discussion and Personal Interviews. Remember GD and PI is also a vital part of the selection process and have significant weightage in the final CMAT cutoff. Preparining for GD and PI will help increase their chances of getting admission to top MBA Colleges accepting CMAT scores.
Aspirants who rely upon self-study need to get the right books and study material for the preparation. Candidates can solve the CMAT previous year’s papers and the mock test series for better preparations. Solving more and more papers helps them in time management and gives exposure to more questions.
The right time to start preparation for next year's CMAT exam is in pre-final year of graduation. They will get enough time for preparation. Since they will be preparing for more than 1 year, they will be able to crack CMAT by giving 14-20 hours every week. The only thing that needs to be required is to stay motivated
and continuously prepare for the entire period of the program.
Since they are applicable to take CMAT this year itself, they need to start the preparation for CMAT as early as possible. They can surely secure good marks if they manage properly. It would be recommendable for those in this group to give 20-35 hours per week towards preparation .
Students who have finished their graduation and working somewhere, They need to choose whether they would like to give CMAT this year or next year in next session. In case one opt CMAT this year itself then they need to start the preparation for CMAT immediately. It would recommendable to devote around 35-40 hours per
week towards its preparation.
If you are not so good with a particular section; then you need to start focus on particular subject as soon as possible. For example, if you are a commerce student who is not very good with math's, then you need to start your CMAT preparation early. Also, when you start – your main focus should be on improving your mathematical Ability because that is your weakest section. Mathematical Ability takes a long time to improve and the easiest way to improve is to
practice more and more books. Regular preparation matters a lot more than the total amount of time invested.
How to Prepare for CMAT 2024?
Test for CMAT is conducted by the   National Testing Agency (NTA) for taking admission in MBA/PGDM courses in B-schools all over India. The difficulty level of the test is usually moderate difficult. The questions may be of any level, but what makes the difference is how well is your speed and presence of mind to solve them with 100 percent accuracy.
For this you need to know the CMAT syllabus and pattern thoroughly. Choosing right question, reading them thoroughly and solving them accurately, are the key requirements you need to work upon during your course.
Students who opt for coaching institute for CMAT preparation, will be taken care by the lecturers, teachers and coaches. CMAT study material and mock test series will be provided by teachers while guiding them through tricky topics and questions. However, students need to attend classes 6-8 hours daily.
Students, who cannot attend daily classes, should opt for self study by following given points:
ACQUIRE online study material provided by various institutes.
CONNECT online study groups on whatsapp, Facebook, YouTube, Telegram, etc.
DOWNLOAD applications which make you prepare for exam.
PURCHASE best books for CMAT preparation
DESIGN a month-wise study schemes.
Intense Reading:Books are the best friend of man. This saying is very much useful here. There is no better way to improve your reading than to read books. Not only books, newspaper, journals, articles, biographies all are solution to good verbal ability. The problem here is that most of us do not focus on reading . So they mainly check how well is student’s reading capability.
Theoretical Clarity:Quantitative Aptitude is the most varied area in the paper and there are a lot of basic concepts involved. Lot of practice is required to clear the basic mathematical concepts. One must be thorough with them. If the concept is strong getting full marks become quite easy for the aspirants.
Logical Reasoning: It is only on the exam day every aspirant understands the difference between what he/she prepared for this section and what came in exam. A proper study schedule for this section must be prepared for getting the basics tools and also solving as many diverse problems as possible.
Mock Test: This is the most vital area of your CMAT preparation. Practicing lot of mock test i along with analyzing is required to crack the exam. Analyzing the mocks is more important than giving a mock.
Here are Some Last minute Preparation Tips for CMAT exam
CMAT 2024 is close and this is the time to boost your brains, not feel anxious and be guarded. Go through these last moment tips to prepare and perform well for the CMAT 2024 entrance exam. Ace the exam with the stated strategies to lessen the exam day burden and calmly focus on bringing out the best of your abilities.
Every topic is important and requires equal effort in all the sections. Prepare a schedule and strategy based on what your strengths and weakness areas are, and then divide the time between the topics. Devote a little more time to those that need more concentration and those that just need a quick look. Also, the schedule should have the maximum time that can be allotted to one section.
Assign not more than 2.5 minutes per question. The questions that take more time should be left aside and attempted later.
Towards the last days, try to take at least one mock test twice in a week. This will make you feel more confident and increase the chances of getting a best score based on your best capabilities. One gets to understand what strategy to follow and figure out the sequence in which you can choose the sections to attempt. Strategize time to attempt your strongest sections first.
Mock tests help gauge the level of preparation. Towards the last week, try to dedicate two hours studying for each section or try to attempt one CMAT mock test daily by setting time boundation. Taking more and more tests will also help exploring different types of questions.
Go through as many mock tests, sample papers, and previous Question Papers. Try to improve upon those topics for which you consume more time or tend to make more mistakes.
Revision is most important during the last days of the exam. Picking new topics to learn at this time may be damaging to the whole preparation. Stick to your strengths and build confidence around the topics that you have already learned. Take time to brush up tables, formulas, grammar, and other notes.
This is the time to touch all the topics that you have learned this far. While refreshing, prepare flash cards for a quick revisal at the last moment.These can be carried on the exam day for a swift refresher.
General Awareness
Preparation for this section is difficult because the coverage is very vast andit requires long term efforts. Quickly go through history topics, brush up on current affairs from Competition Success Review(and similar resources). Devote lesser time at this point of time to revise through this section as the subjects in this section are cosmic as well as vague.
Quantitative Techniques & Data Interpretation
To do well in this section, the candidates must try to ace fast calculation abilities. The questions are based on direct concepts, and are easier than other sections. Focus and give more time to revise Geometry, Simple Interest, Compound interest, Work, Algebra, and Probability. Practice at least 1 question from each type of Data Interpretation question.
Logical Reasoning
Start exploring the approach to answer while at the time of reading the questions. Read properly to understand the question minutely. Practice more from the important topics like Critical Reasoning, Data Arrangement, Series and sequences, Coding and Decoding, Blood Relations, Input/output analysis, Direction Sense.
Language Comprehension
The options offered under this section may seem to be confusing , therefore rehearse more for questions like Sentence Correction, Antonyms, Reading Comprehension,  and Analogies, Sentence Completion, Fill in the blanks, Synonyms & Para Jumbles.
Note: Remember to keep the admit card and identity proof ready.
Above all, have confidence and do not get stressed. Do not panic over inexperienced questions and long comprehensions. Try to solve easier sections and questions first for better time management and perform to your complete abilities with above ideas in mind.
This includes topic wise coverage and preparing sample questions:
Read thoroughly the revised CMAT exam design.
Go through the CMAT syllabus.
Take out your strong points and weak points in above all four sections.
Obtain the best books and study material for CMAT preparation 2024.
Focus on your weak areas and monitor the performance regularly.
Plan out the difficult topics first.
Try to memorize static topics. Follow news and read newspaper, it will take care of current affairs section.
While you are revising difficult topics, make notes of important points. You can go through it one day prior to CMAT exam to refresh your memory.
If you have doubt on any topic , try to connect to your mentors or study group to get it cleared. Practice it at least two times to make sure you have understood it.
Target the questions first whom you are able to solve with speed and accuracy to reduce the possibility of negative marking. Make a note of the types of questions you are able to solve in CMAT mock tests with speed and accuracy.
Solving previous year CMAT question papers will give you an idea of the types of questions asked in the previous exam with individual weightage.
To identify gaps in your exam preparation, Solve sample paper and mock test series. You should be able to point out, which topics are your strength and weakness.
Speed and accuracy can be improve by giving mock test. You will also came to know tricks and shortcuts of solving questions with speed and accuracy.
Solving mock tests will expose you to a variety of questions – so that you are well prepared for all types of questions in the actual exam.
Practicing online mock tests, will prepare you for the actual CMAT exam. When you get experience of online exam, there will be no first time uneasiness in the actual exam.
No exam preparation is complete without revision.
Revision of formulas , Revision of short cuts is to be done in daily basis started from some days before the examination.
Revision is done to improve memorization, speed and accuracy in solving the questions.
Revision will help you to identify gaps in your exam preparation to work upon.
You will be able to identify, which topics are your strength and which ones are your weakness.
If you have doubt on any topic or concept, reach out to your mentors or study group to get it cleared. Practice it at least twice to ensure you have understood it.
Give more time to difficult topics but at the same time keep revising topics which are well prepared by you.
Revise the main formulae and theorem in the morning. Do not practice any question.
Read instructions thoroughly before starting to solve the questions.
Start with the section you find easy and are confident of solving fast. If you can't solve a question within less than a minute, move on to the next question. Come back later to solve the question.
Choose only those question to answer which you can solve with 100% accuracy. Don't risk negative marking.
Last 10 minute should be given to revision of your answers in the end. GK section should be done within 40 minutes and rest of the time should be given to rest of the three sections.
Here are 10 Tips and strategies for CMAT Preparation:
Aiming at the top MBA College will drive you to put best efforts while you prepare for their entrance tests. Set bigger goals and work hard to achieve them. Targeting the top school will inspire you to work towards a high CMAT score and plan in view of that.
Analyze your performance and identify weak and strong areas. Focus on your weak areas and work on perfecting them. This would require more practice in these subject areas. On the other hand understanding your strong areas will help you design a better strategy for exam. Plan the next move based on this performance and dedicate more time in preparing for the weak areas. Work on increasing speed and accuracy of answers. Conscious efforts have to be made to track your speed and accuracy.
Having spent time on learning and brushing up the syllabus topics, plan and spend a fair amount of time solving the mock tests and online materials. Practice as much as possible to get closer to a high CMAT score.  It is advisable to solve at least 1 mock each day. Since time is also one crucial factor, attempting previous years’ papers will help determine your capabilities. Based on the results you can gauge the aspects of the exam that you need to improve.
Revise formulas and key points thoroughly for acing Quant and DI section.
Develop a reading habit. Read online articles, newspapers, books and remember important events from last few months for excellent scores in current affairs section.
Take into account the 3 hours (180 minutes) allotted to you for attempting the exams. Calculate and draw the time you need to solve one question. Accordingly allocate time to every single question during the exam and do not spend more time on a particular question. Attempt rest of the questions and find time in the last to spare on the difficult / unresolved questions.
Design a schedule to cover the complete syllabus, whereas this can be quite challenging for many, because sticking to the assigned task can be quite a struggle. Make a tailored schedule in a way that no aspect of syllabus is left out, to avoid haste and stress during the last days.
Solve Mock tests and sample papers to get familiarized with the questions. The official mock papers are available on NTA website. You can also find many applications on internet that offer free mock tests.
Toppers’ interviews are published on various websites, newspapers and articles to give you an insight of what could be the right direction to put all your efforts to. Keep a track of their personal experiences to follow or tailor your study plan accordingly. To know what it takes to crack the exam, let us have a look at the testimonials from the toppers of CMAT. Topper, Narayan Sharma states that focusing on accuracy and cross checking the answers after finishing exams is the key to score maximal, while there is no shortage of time.  Krutharth Patel, another topper, has a regular reading habit helping him peak the General Awareness section. He also recommends Norman Lewis for an improved vocabulary.
According to a few previous examinees, it is not necessary to take coaching from an institute for preparation. Self-study, if planned in advance with a strict schedule is sufficient to excel in CMAT. Opting to go to a coaching institute is a wise decision too. They can get you ready for competitive examinations timely and tactfully. But before you choose your coaching institute, consider its previous track records, faculty, time slots and curriculum, to utilize your time and money in the best manner possible.
Start revising the subjects covered, a few days before the exam. Give more time to the topics that you have not nailed well. Touching new topics when exams are absolutely near may be deterring to rest of the preparation. Making short notes for the topics covered will assist in quick and strong revision of concepts and tricks just before the exam.
Avoid piling up and referring to too many books while you prepare. Although many books claim about the best preparation materials, but this may lead you to a jumble of doubts.  To crack competitive exams the best books must be referred to achieve competitive scores. A set of right study material can be found online and offline. If you have decided to rely upon self-study for preparation, recommended books are stated below.
Reference Manual for CMAT by SK Sinha, S Satyanarayan and JS Rana
Vocabulary and Grammar
Wren & Martin English Grammar
Word Power Made Easy by Norman Lewis
30 Days to a More Powerful Vocabulary by Norman Lewis
The Students’ Companion by Wilfred D Best
Quantitative Aptitude
How to Prepare for Quantitative Aptitude for CAT by Arun Sharma
Quantitative Aptitude – RS Agarwal
Quantitative Aptitude for Competitive Examinations- Abhijit Guha
How to Prepare for Logical Reasoning for the CAT by Arun sharma
Logical Reasoning and Data Interpretation for the CAT - Nishit K Sinha
The Hindu
Economic Times
Wall Street Journal
The Financial Times
Other study materials include previous years’ CMAT question papers and sample papers. This can give you a fair idea about the structure, variety and type of questions asked.
Join an online study group. Interacting with other members from the far flunged places with different ideas and concepts in mind helps you open up your mind. For the concepts and questions that you find difficult to understand can be shared and guidance can be sought from these groups. You can interact with members, mentors and students of the group for your problems.
Taking study breaks is important, so do not forget to assign ample study breaks in your time table. Long hours of studies can exhaust you leading to feeling drained out. Taking breaks will keep you rejuvenated for more effective learning time.
What important topics to cover for a well-defined CMAT preparation?
Following data represents section wise topics that candidates must study while preparing for CMAT exam. Each four section carry equal weightage with negative marking for every wrong attempt. Every right answer will be awarded with 4 marks and wrong answer will deduct 1 mark. However the weightage of topics are different in each section. CMAT syllabus is prescribed by NTA(National testing agency) which include 4 sections-Language comprehension, Quantitative Techniques, Data interpretation, logical reasoning and general awareness. CMAT will cover 100 MCQs based on given syllabus.
Language Comprehension: Reading comprehension ,Grammar ,English usage errors jumbled paragraphs
Quantitative techniques and Data interpretation: Geometry, Graph, Linear equation, Speed time distance ,Algebra , Allegation and mixtures
Logical Reasoning: Linear arrangements , relationship test, statements and conclusion, number series, matrix arrangements, Analytical reasoning
General Awareness: History ,Politics ,Sports, Economics, current affairs, culture.
Financial Express
Business World
Competition Success Review
Business Today
FAQ
Q. When to Start the CMAT preparation?
Ans. As soon as you have decided that you want to appear in cmat examination. CMAT exam has a wide syllabus and it takes time to cover all the topics.
Q. Is 6 months of preparation enough for CMAT?
Ans. Yes! but depends on the ability of candidates and the focus. If a candidate learns things at a fast pace and devotes 6 months completely to exam preparation. They can easily score high cutoff and secure a seat in top MBA colleges.
Q. Is the CMAT exam tough to crack?
Ans. Yes! The CMAT exam is among the toughest management entrance exam in India. It consists of a wide syllabus and thousands of students appear for this exam. For admission to top b schools candidates have to score more than 95 percentile in the exam.
Q. Is it possible to crack CMAT through self-studies?
Ans. Of course! it is quite an achievable task to crack CMAT with self-studies. Candidates just need to follow a feasible strategy. Also, they are required to give constant effort in order to achieve their goal.
Q. What is the process of CMAT preparation?
Ans. Start with gathering information about exams such as dates, syllabus, exam pattern, and updates. Based on this information prepare a study plan and execute it successfully. Candidates are required to check their growth by solving mock test to find whether their efforts and strategy is on track or not. If yes then follow it till the exam date and if no then find out the problems and make mandatory changes.
--- https://mbaroi.in/cmat/cmat-registration/
CMAT Registration
CMAT 2025 Registration Started - 13th December last date to apply
Common Management Admission Test or CMAT 2025 registration has been started from 14th November 2024. All interested candidates are requested to register themselves as soon as possible reason being window will remain open till the 13th December, 2024. From 15th December 2024 to 17th December candidate can correct the information in their form. It is mentioned in the official document of NTA that in no case any chance of form correction be provided to candidates after the last date of form correction. All of a sudden NTA released this news on a new website which left many of the candidates unaware of the fact that the exam dates of CMAT are out and registration is already started. Before candidates start their application candidates are advised to check the eligibility and exam syllabus of CMAT 2024.
The application form fee is 2000/-INR for male candidates (general category) and 1000/- INR for female, Transgender, and reserved category aspirants. Filling up the exam form is a mandatory step for all the aspirants who wish to appear in this year CMAT Exam.
Obligatory for CMAT Registration
Candidates will require a valid email ID which should be active for the subsequent 6 months from the date of CMAT Registration. All the official communication will be done on this provided email id. The email needs to be registered to the candidate and not anyone else, for e.g. candidate should not use parent's/siblings'/ spouse's email.
They will also need a valid mobile number for receiving official information via SMS. Candidates will receive exam updates, important registration information, and details about their personal accounts via their SMS.
Valid Debit card/ Credit card if the mode of payment is online. If the payment is going to be through cash, candidates ought to have an operational SBI bank account that they can utilize and can process transactions through.
Documents Required for CMAT Application Form
All the candidates who are going to fill out the application form need to keep some document ready with them. Details of these documents will be asked during the exam registration. Some of the documents are mandatory and candidates have to upload those document. All the required documents for CMAT exam 2025 are mentioned below :
Application Process of CMAT Exam Form
Candidates will have to provide their necessary details to obtain a system-generated 6-digit Application Number. It will be helpful for the applicants if they keep a note or data of their application number so that they do not have any trouble logging into their accounts in the future. It is easy to forget long passwords.
Candidates are also required to create a PASSWORD and choose a security question and enter its answer.
After successfully submitting of the personal details, an application number will be generated, and it will be used to complete the remaining steps of the form. For consequent logins, the candidate will be able to login directly with the respective system generated application number and created password.
Candidates also have the option to reset their passwords if they accidentally forget or misplace it. The procedure is easy and only has a couple of questions. Once the security question is chosen, a verification code will be sent to the registered mobile number. By clicking on the link that is sent to the registered mobile number, candidates can reset their passwords.
How to Register for CMAT 2025?
Candidates are instructed to follow the steps below to complete the Registrations for CMAT:
Visit the official website of CMAT (https://exams.nta.ac.in/CMAT).
Click on Fill Online Application Form.
Click on the ‘New Registration’ tab under the New Candidate Registration box.
Also, download the Information Bulletin and then select the 'Click here to Proceed' tab.
Fill in all the fields such as
After providing all the details, candidates must examine all the carefully. In case of any changes, select the 'Edit Registration Form.'
Select four choices for the exam city.
Options for selecting one's preferred exam cities are varied and diverse. Candidates can select various cities across India, this is done to make sure that applicants from all parts of the country can appear for the exam. Exam Centers extend all the way from Jammu to Tamil Nadu and there are multiple centers in each state.
NCR citizens have the option of choosing the New Delhi center as their center of choice.
You'll require photographs of:
3 copies of bank challan (in case of offline payment)
Candidates are required to scan and upload the following:
Enter the security pin
Select I have verified Uploaded images carefully.
The next step after filling up the online Application Form is to pay the Registration Fee. NTA has declared that the application fee will not increase for CMAT.
Modes of Payment
Candidates can select for ONLINE PAYMENT and then make their payment using Credit Card/Debit Card/Net Banking. Once a candidates’ payment is successfully done. They will receive the confirmation email and SMS.
Candidates can select for PAY BY CASH and make payment at any designated branch of SBI. This option is available to candidates living in INDIA and wants to appear for the test in India.
After selecting this option and a challan will be generated. Candidate will see a Challan with their details already filled. Candidate needs to take 3 print outs of this challan and fill in the details of the bank in all three copies and visit the nearest SBI branch and make the payment by cash. Cash deposit will be accepted from the next day after the Challan generation. Bank will also charge their bank charge in addition to the registration fee.
Note: Candidates must deposit cash at least 2 days before the closing of CMAT registration as it takes 48 hours to update the payment on registration portal. The bank will give back one copy of the challan with their stamp and journal number, candidates should also ensure that the Journal number mentioned in the challan returned by the bank is clearly visible before leaving the bank.
After 48 hours of making the cash payment, the candidate will receive the confirmation email and SMS that the payment has been updated on your registration portal.
Note - If the fee is paid through credit/debit card and status is not OK, it means the transaction is cancelled and the amount will, automatically, be refunded to concerned credit/debit card within 15 days. Therefore, such candidates must pay the fee once again and ensure the OK fee status.
Candidate should also NOTE that the fee once paid either online or through cash will not be refunded under any circumstances.
Candidates will have to complete all registration process online. To complete CMAT Registration process smoothly and error free, NTA has suggested few key points,
arrangement for required documents before beginning the registration process and avoid any kind of mistakes. All the key points suggested by NTA are mentioned below:
No internet interruption during CMAT Registration - Candidate should ensure that their computer internet connectivity is good, and no breakage/interruption occurs during the registration process.
No mistake on Academic details - Candidate should gather all their qualification details and fill them correctly during CMAT registration.
Provide valid email address and mobile number - Candidate should provide a valid email address and mobile number while registering for CMAT. All communication regarding the exam will be done on this email address and mobile number.
Scanned Photo & Signature should be of correct size - Candidates need to upload their scanned photo and signature while registration process. Therefore, candidates should keep ready their scanned Photo and Signature took on the white background of size 140 x 160 pixel (60kB) and 60 x 90 pixel (30kB) respectively.
Candidate should ensure to take 3 hard copies of CHALLAN, in case, they are planning to make payment by CASH at the bank.
All AICTE approved Institutes/Colleges of Universities will accept CMAT scores. The specific notifications issued by Universities and State Governments are available at CMAT website, i.e. cmat.nta.nic.in
Given below are some of the top colleges accepting CMAT Score. Candidates clearing CMAT Cut-off and qualifying the pre-admission rounds will be called for the
counselling process.
Jamnalal Bajaj Institute of Management Studies (JBIMS), Mumbai
SIES College of Management Studies
SIMSREE
SSIM
Christ University, Bangalore
KJ Somaiya Institute of Management Studies & Research (KJSIMSR), Mumbai
Doon Business school, Dehradun
Goa Institute of Management, Goa
Great Lakes Institute of Management, Chennai
Question. When CMAT 2024 registration will start?
Ans. CMAT 2025 registration has been started from 14th November 2024. All interested candidates are requested to register themselves as soon as possible reason being window will remain open till the 13th December 2024.
Question. What is the fee for the CMAT application form?
Ans. CMAT exam fee is 2000 for all the male candidates of the general category and 1000 for the SC/ST/Reserved and transgender category aspirants.
Question. How to fill out the CMAT exam form 2024?
Ans. In order to fill out the CMAT application form candidates have to visit the official NTA website. There they need to fill in the required details and pay the exam fee for completing the registration.
Question. Is CMAT easy than CAT?
Ans. Yes! in some contexts CMAT is easier than the CAT. But if we talk about admission to top MBA colleges in india both exam carries the same difficulty level. In both examinations, candidates have to score 95+ percentile in order to get admission to the best colleges.
--- https://mbaroi.in/cmat/cmat-previous-years-papers/
CMAT Previous Year Papers
Download PDF of CMAT Previous Year Papers (2018 to 2024):
CMAT 2024 dates are out and candidates are left with few days for the preparation. It's the final time when candidates have to give every possible effort to score big in marks.CMAT's previous year's paper and sample mock test series can be a game changer for the candidates.  Solving them will help aspirants gain some confidence in their learning and secure a better rank in the exam. These papers have questions from all 5 sections -  logical reasoning, Quantitative Techniques and Data interpretation, Verbal ability, Language Comprehension, General Awareness, and Innovation & Entrepreneurship with an updated syllabus as per NTA.  This will help candidates familiar with the important topics for the CMAT 2024 Exam.  All sections have equal weightage in the exam, with 20 Questions from a section carrying 80 marks.
From here you can download the pdf file for CMAT's previous years papers from 2018 to 2023. It can be a big step if you want to study in the best MBA colleges in India.
Before you begin to solve the previous year papers, you must go through CMAT Syllabus and Exam Pattern, and check the complete composition of the CMAT exam. Also carefully analyzing topics in the exam will help aspirants in optimizing their time for the exam.
Get Free Sample Mock Test of CMAT
CMAT 2018 Slot 1 Paper with Solutions
CMAT 2018 Slot 2 Paper with Solutions
CMAT 2019   Paper with Solutions
CMAT 2020 Paper with Solutions.
CMAT 2021 Slot-1 Paper with Solutions
CMAT 2021 Slot 2 Paper with Solutions
CMAT 2022 Paper with Solutions
CMAT 2023 Paper Slot-1 with Solutions
CMAT 2023 Paper Slot-2 with Solutions
Why is it important to solve CMAT Previous Year Papers?
Aspirants can solve the last few years’ papers for a better understanding of the type of questions asked in the CMAT Exam. Solving more and more cmat previous year papers helps them in preparing a suitable strategy for the exam. After solving papers a candidate can do the self-analysis and find out the areas where she/he needs improvements.
Last year's papers will introduce the various important aspect of the exam. Such as syllabus, exam pattern, and difficulty level.
According to many CMAT toppers solving more and more mock tests and previous year question papers better their CMAT preparation.
Candidates can easily identify the key performing areas(KPAs) and improve their overall performance in order to get on the merit list.
As per psychology, fear causes mistakes and the same case happens in the CMAT examination. Practicing more papers will eliminate the unnecessary stress of exams from the mind of students.
FAQs- CMAT Last Year Papers
Q. Where I can find the CMAT previous year papers?
Ans. At MBAROI you can find the CMAT 2018 to 2023 years paper in pdf format. You can download it from our site and start solving them.
Q. Are questions for the previous year's paper repeated in the CMAT Exam?
Ans. No, there is no repetition of any question in the CMAT Exam. Every year new questions are introduced in the exam to maintain the level of the exam.
Q. What will be the benefit of Solving the previous year's papers?
Ans. Solving the previous year's paper will help you know key factors such as important topics for exams, time management, areas where you need to focus and so on.
Q. Can I download the pdf file of CMAT last year's papers?
Ans. Yes, with one click you can download the pdf file of CMAT papers from our website.
--- https://mbaroi.in/cmat/cmat-result/
CMAT 2024 official notification is out and the exam will be held on 15th May as per the official announcement of NTA. It is expected that the results of CMAT 2024 will be announced on the 29th of May 2024. Candidates can check their NTA CMAT result, by entering their CMAT application number, date of birth, and security pin. More than 60,000 aspirants are waiting for the CMAT result. CMAT Exam Result opens the door for admission to some of the renowned MBA/PGDM colleges in India. Over 1300+ MBA/PGDM colleges in India accept the CMAT result for their admission process. CMAT result is declared by the National test agency on the basis of the answers key. CMAT exam result does not give grievances, queries, re-totaling, rechecking/re-evaluation/of the result & score are accepted in relation to Answer Keys after the results are declared.
How to Check CMAT   Result
Calculation of CMAT   Marks
How to Calculate CMAT   Result in Percentile?
What's Next After CMAT   Results ? A Step-by-Step Guide
CMAT Colleges: Last Year's Cut-Off Scores
Frequently Asked Question (FAQs)
Candidates are advised to keep visiting the NTA‟s website regularly for the most recent updates and also check the notification e-mails regularly.
Log-In to the CMAT Official Website https://cmat.nta.nic.in/
Click on the 'CMAT   NTA scorecard' tab.
You will be prompted for your login credentials,application number, and password/Date of Birth.
Enter CMAT   login credentials and click on 'Submit'
Download the scorecard and save/print it for further reference.
CMAT results are announced in the form of CMAT total score, percentile score, and All India Ranks. The CMAT score is the total of marks secured by the examinee. The total score is determined on the basis of weightage assigned to each question as well as negative marking.
Language Comprehension, Quantitative Techniques & Data Interpretation, Logical Reasoning, General Awareness, and Innovation & Entrepreneurship comprise the  CMAT   syllabus. Marks are allotted for each section separately and then totalled to arrive at the CMAT total score (out of 400).
CMAT Question paper has 100 questions carrying 4 marks each. Questions are divided into 4 sections viz.:
Quantitative Technique and Data Interpretation with 25 questions carrying 100 marks
Logical Reasoning  with 25 questions carrying 100 marks
Language Comprehension 25 questions carrying 100 marks
General Awareness 25 questions carrying 100 marks
For every correct answer 4 marks will be allotted
For incorrect answers 1 mark will be deducted.
The total score is then calculated based on the lost and the gained scores.
To calculate CMAT Percentile, NTA prescribes the below-mentioned formula:
CMAT Percentile = (Number of candidates who scored EQUAL TO or LESS THAN the candidate)
(Total number of the candidates who appeared)
The NTA Score/ CMAT Percentile denotes the percentage of candidates who have scored equal or lesser than a candidate. E.g. If, out of 10000 candidates who attempted the exam, Candidate ‘A’ secured No.1 rank. His CMAT percentile will be:
Percentile (P) = 10000 -  1  * 100 = 99.99
10000
A candidate with rank 3 will have a percentile of 99.97. Percentile is calculated up to 7 decimal places to avoid bunching effect.
Your CMAT scorecard will contain, raw score, sectional raw score, CMAT percentile score and sectional CMAT percentile. The selection depends upon your place in the CMAT   merit list.
After the result is declared, candidates need to appear for selection processes. Selection criteria is different for different MBA Colleges, so visit the official website of each college you aspire to take admission to.
Submit your CMAT   result to the B-school where you plan to apply.
Arrange your academic documents in order, as they are necessary for the Interview stage.
Keep a check on the release of cut-off dates for each college. Ideally, top colleges need a score between 75 to 99 percentiles.
Check the selection and counseling procedures and respective dates for the events at different B-school websites.
Appear for further rounds of assessment for admissions to the business school of your choice. The chances of securing admission would depend upon the candidates’ performance in Writing Aptitude Test (WAT), Group Discussion (GD), and Personal Interview (PI).
Here is the CMAT score and equivalent percentile after the score normalization process
Here is the list of  top B-schools accept CMAT and their last year cut off
Question: When will the CMAT   result be declared? Answer:   CMAT exams are yet to be conducted, soon after the exams CMAT   results will be announced.
Question:Who announce the CMAT result? Answer:   National Test Agency (NTA) announces the CMAT Result every year. The official website of NTA is https://nta.ac.in/ for updates related to the CMAT exam.
Question: What is the formula to calculate CMAT percentile?  Answer:   Formula to calculate CMAT percentile is :,br> Percentile (p) = ((N-your rank/N)*100 (N = Total number of candidates appeared for the CMAT exam)
Question: Who is the CMAT topper Last Year? Answer:   Sanket Khandare scores 99.73 percentile in CMAT 2021 and tops the CMAT exam
Question: how many Candidates appear in the CMAT exam? Answer:  More than 50000 students every year appear in the CMAT exam. In CMAT 2021 total of 52327 candidates appear in the exam.
Question: How long is the CMAT result valid for admission? Answer:   CMAT exam score is valid for only one year. If you appear in CMAT   exam you are eligible to take admission in MBA/PGDM for the session  -24.
Question: How can I check the CMAT result? Answer:   You can visit the NTA official website in order to get your CMAT results. The official website of NTA is https://nta.ac.in/
Question:Who announce the CMAT   cut-off? Answer:  The Colleges on their Own announce the cut-off on the basis of the following factors
Seat availability in the college
Number of applications for admission
Marks scored by the candidates
Overall merit of the CMAT qualifying candidates
Question:What is the Good Score in CMAT? Answer:   Score in CMAT exam enables you to take admission in some of the Top MBA/PGDM colleges of India. We can Divide the colleges into 3 Tier.
Tier 1: Candidates requires to score more than 90 percentile to take admission In Tier 1 colleges. Some of them are JBIMS-Mumbai,Taxila Business School, Goa Institute of Management, Xavier Institute of Social Service.
Tier 2: Anything between 80 to 90 percentile is a good score in order to take admission in Tier 2 colleges like IFIM-Bangalore, IFMR-Chennai, NIBM-Pune, and so on
Tier 3: For Tier 3 colleges 65 to 70 percentile is a good score to take admission. Colleges like BIT Mesra, XIEM-Chennai, Japuria Institute of Management – Noida , Calcutta Business School, and many more.
For more information on this visit MBA colleges accepting CMAT score
Question:. Is CMAT easy to Crack? Answer:  Answer: No, It’s not easy to crack the CMAT exam. CMAT Exam covers a wide range of syllabus from 4 different sections like Language Comprehension, Quantitative techniques, Logical Reasoning, and General Awareness. In order to crack CMAT Exam and take admission to Top MBA Colleges candidates need to have a deep knowledge of these sections.
Read More About 	CMAT Preparation Strategy
How To Select Non-IIM Colleges After CMAT
Few of NON IIMs accepting CMAT score
--- https://mbaroi.in/cmat/cmat-answer-key/
CMAT Answer Key 2022
Download the CMAT answer key 2024
The answer key to CMAT can be viewed at MBAROI.IN. For any Score improvement or Revaluation, The last date to contest CMAT Score is 25th of May 2025. Process to revaluation comprise of Payment of ₹200 against improvement sought with contested questions detail. The fees is non- refundable and The candidate shall be awarded a score of 4 points if the contest is established in favour of candidate's claim. Refer to the following PDF for all essential details.
CMAT is taken into account by a lot of promising colleges and is taken up by aspirants of MBA/ PGDM courses. The timing of release of CMAT results is late than usual year. The candidates are expected to act promptly and apply with CMAT scores to their desired admission options before the seats to most get filled. Refer to the following college list that accept CMAT score in their Admission Criteria.
Colleges Accepting CMAT Score 2022 with Expected cutoff, location, fees and highest placements
Here is the CMAT answer Key
--- https://mbaroi.in/xat/
About Xat Exam
About XAT Exam
Result
XAT Exam - 2024
XAT Exam or Xavier Aptitude Test Exam is a national-level management entrance exam conducted by XLRI, Jamshedpur for admission to MBA/PGDM programmes. Apart from XLRI and XAMI members, many B-schools accept XAT scores for admission in their post-graduate management programmes.
The XAT exam is conducted in online mode at various test centres across India. The question paper consists of 100 questions MCQs from Decision Making, Verbal & Logical Ability, Quantitative Ability & Data Interpretation and General Knowledge.
XAT 2024 - Important Updates
XAT 2025 online registration started on July 15, 2024 and will close on 10 December 2024.
The form correction window for XAT 2025 will be open from 05 December 2024.
Candidate can download their admit card for the XAT exam from 20 December 2024.
The XAT exam is scheduled for 05 January 2025 and the result will be announced on 17 January 2025(tentative).
Bihar Agricultural University, Sabour, Bhagalpur, Prestige University, Indore, and Siva Sivani Institute of Management, Secunderabad is the latest associate added for XAT 2024.
160+ business schools will allocate admission to management courses via XAT exam results.
XAT registration fee is 2000/- INR.
All dates are Tentative, Except Exam Date.
Exam Pattern
XAT Exam Pattern has been updated. Earlier XAT exam consisted of five sections but now four will be there in 2024. Since there are some major changes that occurred in the pattern of the exam all the aspirants are advised to understand the exam pattern before they fill XAT application form.
Total number of sections is 4(four).
Total number of questions were increased from 100 to 101.
Time duration has been increased from 3 hours to 3 hours and 10 minutes.
Essay writing section has been restored.
All question will be in MCQ Pattern
Correct answer will reward one mark and One fourth negative marking scheme for each wrong answer
For question remained unanswered.10 marks will be deducted.
The GK section is not counted in the overall percentile.
XAT Exam 2025 - Eligibility Criteria
A student with a graduation degree in any discipline from a recognized college is eligible for appearing in XAT 2024.
Like other MBA entrances, there is no age restriction for this exam.
Final year Apperainf students can also apply for the XAT exam.
--- https://mbaroi.in/xat/xat-exam-date/
XAT Important Dates
XAT 2025 registration will close on 30th November 2024. All the candidates are requested to register for the exam as soon as possible to avoid last-minute mistakes. XAT 2025 will be held on 05 January 2024 and admit card for the same will be available for download from December 20, 2024.  Candidates can expect the result of XAT to be declared on 17th January or earlier. Soon after the result announcement the admission process through XAT will be started. Not only XLRI and its colleges more than 160+ top mba colleges in India accept the score of XAT for admissions.
Important Dates for XAT 2025
XAT Exam Syllabus | XAT Eligibility | XAT 2024
XAT 2025 Exam Fees
Successful completion of the transaction, an e-Receipt will be generated. Non-generation of 'E-Receipt' indicates PAYMENT FAILURE. On failure of payment, Candidates are advised to login again using their registered Email ID and Password and repeat the process of payment.
Note:- Candidates are required to take a printout of the e-Receipt and online Application Form. Please note that if the same cannot be generated, online transactions may not have been successful. There is a facility to download/print application form containing fee details after payment of fees.
--- https://mbaroi.in/xat/xat-eligibility-criteria/
XAT Exam Eligibility
XAT Eligibility
All Indian Candidates can appear for XAT 2025 & NRI and Foreign candidates can apply through GMAT or XAT
The candidate must hold a bachelor's degree or equivalent course of minimum or equivalent in any discipline from a recognized university/college/institution.
Students in their final year of bachelor's degree or awaiting their results are also eligible to apply.
There is no minimum age restriction to apply.
Agra
Ahmedabad
Allahabad
Ambala
Amravati
Amritsar
Berhampur
Bhatinda
Bhilai Nagar
Bhopal
Bhubaneswar
Bokaro Steel City
Chandigarh/Mohali
Coimbatore
Cuttack
Dehradun
Delhi-NCR
Dhanbad
Dibrugarh
Durgapur/Asansol
Ernakulam
Gandhinagar
Goa
Gorakhpur
Guwahati
Gwalior
Hooghly
Hubballi(Hubli)
Hyderabad
Indore
Jabalpur
Jaipur
Jammu
Jamshedpur
Kannur
Kanpur
Kota
Kottayam
Kurnool
Kurukshetra
Lucknow
Ludhiana
Madurai
Mangalore
Mysuru(Mysore)
Nagpur
Nashik
Patna
Pune
Raipur
Rajahmundry
Ranchi
Roorkee
Rourkela
Sambalpur
Siliguri
Surat
Thiruvananthapuram
Tiruchirappalli
Tirupathi
Tiruvallur
Udaipur
Udupi
Vadodara
Varanasi
Vijayawada
Visakhapatnam
Warangal
--- https://mbaroi.in/xat/xat-syllabus/
XAT Syllabus
Complete XAT Syllabus
Total questions (Part 1 + Part 2):  100
Total Marks: 100
Xavier Aptitude Test (XAT) exam Syllabus for Verbal Ability, Reading Comprehension and Logical Reasoning section in XAT 2025 is divided into 3 parts. The 1st part covers questions based on Verbal Ability; 2nd part is based on Reading Comprehension passages and the 3rd part is based on questions of different topics on Logical Reasoning.
English Vocabulary based questions – fill in the blanks with correct words; synonyms/antonyms; contextual usage on vocabulary words
Jumbled Paragraphs
Correction of errors in sentences, correct use of words
Completion of sentences
Completion of paragraph
Portion of Reading Comprehension in VARC & LR section is extremely high
Topics on which RC passages are based: Abstract topics, Literature, Social and Economic issues; Science & Culture; history & fiction, etc.
There is no clear-cut definition of RC topics in XAT exam syllabus. RC passage on any topic can be placed in XAT exam.
Type of RC passages: Moderate and Short
Type of Questions: All MCQ type
Questions based on information in RC passage; explanation of the words & phrases as used in the passage; In context of the passage –True/false statements; Author’s view on various issues raised in the RC passage; Inference from the passage; main idea of RC passage; Purpose of the RC passage.
Share of LR questions is not exceedingly high. Usually there are few critical reasoning and a few LR based questions in XAT exam. All questions are of MCQ type.
Topics covered in XAT syllabus on which LR questions are based: Analogy, Clocks, calendars, Fact, Inference, Judgement, binary logic, seating arrangement, blood relations, logical sequence, assumption, premise, conclusion.
XLRI entrance exam syllabus specifies that questions on Logical Reasoning can be individual or in sets.
XAT syllabus is based on Decision Making. It is unique as neither CAT nor any other national level entrance exam has Decision Making as one of its exam sections.
Decision Making is the problem or case solving expertise of a candidate. The topics are:
Conditions and Grouping Test.
Data Arrangement Test.
Complex Arrangement.
Decision Making in a situation.
Quant and DI section is very wide. This section in XAT is considered for XAT percentile calculation.  Syllabus of XAT 2025 for Quant is vast and covers everything in Mathematics.
Syllabus on Quant is based on questions on different topics on Arithmetic, Algebra, Modern Math, Geometry, Mensuration, Trigonometry, etc.
Number System
Geometry including Co-ordinate Geometry
Mensuration
Pure Math
Venn diagrams
Linear Equations
Quadratic Equations
Logarithm
Progressions
Questions in Data Interpretation are in sets mostly. Sometimes individual questions are also given. All the questions are of MCQ type. DI questions are in the set of 4 questions. Questions on interpretation and analysis of data based on text, tables, graphs (line, area), charts (column, bar, pie), Venn diagram, are asked. Data could be given in form of tables, charts, or graphs.
Bar diagrams
Graphs
Data analysis and comparison
XAT exam syllabus for second part in XAT exam consists of General Awareness (GK) section.
Economics, finance, national and international current affairs are a few of the many topics on which questions are placed in this section.
Economics, finance,
National and International current affairs
Company profiles, logos,
Business & Economy
Who's who
Books & Authors
Capitals & Currencies
Essay Writing in XAT has been scrapped, there is no need to look for the syllabus of essay writing test. However, please note that it is the test of writing talent of an applicant. It specifies that the aspirant should write a coherent and logical essay on the given topic. The XLRI entrance exam syllabus on Essay Writing test is wide enough and students can get any topic. Formal styles in XAT reveal that it needs a well-articulated essay on the contemporary or abstract topic. Test taker must write essay on one topic but sometimes there is a choice to choose, sometimes there is no choice at all.
Best size of essay in XAT is reduced to 200 words. Essay in XAT used to play important role in the Personal Interview round as questions are based on what you have written in your XAT Essay.
Key Points to Note on XAT Syllabus
Candidates searching for XLRI entrance exam syllabus should note that the XAT syllabus and pattern is the outcome of the topics which have earlier appeared in XAT exam although the type of questions, their composition, format and number may change in each subsequent XAT exam syllabus.
There is no repetition of XAT questions. The difficulty level of questions as per XAT syllabus is to remain from moderate to difficult
The questions in XAT exam 2025 would remain within the specified wide areas of XAT exam syllabus.
Syllabus is not pre-defined by XLRI, Jamshedpur nor the XAT syllabus is outlined.
Syllabus of XAT exam 2025 is based on the mentioned guidelines and current structure of XAT exam.
The XAT syllabus and pattern changes every year. The XAT syllabus and pattern of exam during last 3 years has changed enormously. On one hand, number of questions in XAT syllabus and pattern are reduced, on the other hand the XAT syllabus 2025 has scrapped the subjective essay writing test of 3 marks which was present till 2018.With the different number of questions in XAT syllabus 2025, more emphasis has shifted to first three sections which are accounted for determining the merit position in written XAT exam.
--- https://mbaroi.in/xat/xat-admit-card/
XAT Admit Card
Almost for around 70 years now, XLRI is conducting XAT at all India level to select the most suitable aspirants for management education. Around 160 institutions in India uses the XAT score for selection to MBA program
How to Download XAT Admit Card/ Hall Ticket?
Documents to Carry to the XAT Exam Centres 2025
Details & instruction Mentioned on XAT Admit Card 2025
Test day Guidelines for XAT 2025:
XAT Exam Centres 2025
XAT 2025 Examination Pattern:
Business Schools who accept XAT Score
Frequently Asked Questions on XAT admit Card
XAT 2025 Admit card are available to download from 20 December 2024. For downloading XAT hall ticket/ admit card aspirants need to use their XAT login credentials such as User ID and Password.
All aspirants will need to carry XAT admit card along with one original valid photo ID proof to the XAT exam centre. XAT admit card holds on it all the required information about XAT Test date, time, the procedures and directions which the aspirant needs to follow on the day of examination.
XAT Admit card download starts from: Dec 20, 2024
XAT Admit card download Last Date: Jan 05, 2025 Sunday, 9:30 AM
Know More About:- XAT Date & Timmings
At the time of downloading XAT 2025 admit card, one needs to follow the steps that are given below so that they do not face any problem.  On the day of XAT 2025, all aspirants are required to carry a printed copy of it along with one valid original photo ID proof.
Step 1 – Go to the portal of XAT test: www.xatonline.in.
Step 2 - Click on ‘Login’ link.
Step 3 – Write your XAT User ID and Password in the space provided, then click on ‘Login’.
Step 4 - Then click on ‘Admit Card’ link.
Step 5 - Then download XAT 2025 admit card to your device and save.
XAT is on Jan 05, 2025, all aspirants needs to carry any one of the following photo ID proof in original for the authentication process.
Voter ID card
Aadhar card
College ID
Driving license
Employee ID card
The following details must be printed on the XAT admit card. In case of any discrepancy such as spelling mistake, wrong dates or any other mistake or missing information, you need to contact the examination conducting body immediately.
XAT ID
Applicant’s photograph
Applicant’s signature
Applicant’s name
Applicant’s Date of birth (DOB)
XAT 2025 exam date
Applicant’s PwD status
Reporting time for XAT 2025 exam
Gate closure time at Test Centre
Applicant’s Test city
Exam duration and timing of Applicant.
XAT 2025 exam centre name and address
Test centre’s Google map link
Applicant’s Emergency contact number
XAT 2025 exam day guidelines and instructions
For any error in the XAT 2025 admit card, candidates are advised to bring this issue to the notice of the examination conducting body.
Request for any change in the XAT test centre will not be entertained.
Validity of XAT admit card is limited and is valid for a specific time only.
Once the entrance gate is closed, applicants will not be allowed to go inside.
Use  of  any  electronic  device  such  as  calculator,   mobile  phones,  smart  watches  etc. is not permitted inside the test centre.
The candidature for the XAT exam will be completely provisional. The aspirant’s candidature can be cancelled at any stage of the admission process, if his/her eligibility conditions are not completed. Read More about XAT Eligibility Condition
Frisking will be done before entering the exam hall.  Storage facility will not be provided to candidates at the examination centre, therefore, if any offensive item is found, candidates will be asked to leave it outside the XAT exam premises.
Prior  to  10  minutes   of  the  examination, candidates   will  be  allowed  to  login  to  the  allotted computer system.
In the examination hall, candidates will be provided with a rough sheet and pen.
On completion of XAT entrance test, and before leaving the examination hall all applicants need to submit the rough paper to the invigilator.
The XAT admit card reference number is meant for seating plan.
XAT 2025 admit card is an important   document,   which aspirant need to carry on the test day to the examination centre. Aspirant will not be allowed to enter the XAT centre without admit card. The XAT 2025 admit card have all the information related to the candidate and XAT exam.  Aspirants are required to retain the XAT 2025 admit card till the conclusion of admission process, as it will be required at the time of XAT counselling.
Applicants   are  recommended  to  report  to  their  particular   XAT  test  centre  one  hour before  the beginning of test.
Applicants must obey to all the guidelines given on the admit card and by the exam invigilator.
Rough work has to be done in the margins and any type of misconduct will not be accepted.
Take your seat as per Centre Registration Number (CRN).
XAT 2025 will be conducted on 5th January 2025 from 9:30 AM to 12:30 PM in following 74 cities online simultaneously. Student needs to select 2 cities of their choice from the list given below for the test.
Aurangabad City(Maharashtra)
Thiruvananthapuram Tiruchirappalli
Udupi Vadodara
Mysore
Warangal.
App Total questions: 	100Expected Question Type: 		MCQ onlyScore for every correct answer: 1Score for every incorrect answer: - 0.25Length of Test/ Examination:	3 Hours only
As per the past trends, the question paper should consist of four sections with a total of 99-100 questions (Total number of questions changes every year).
Question: Is digital copy of the XAT admit card valid on the test centre?
Answer:  No, Only printed copy of the XAT admit card is accepted at the examination centre.
Question: Shall I get a hardcopy of the XAT admit card through post?
Answer: No, This needs to be downloaded from the XAT website.
Question: Which documents are to be carried along with XAT admit card on the day of exam?
Answer: Along with original copy of XAT admit card, applicant must carry a passport size photograph and a original photo ID proof like Voter ID, Aadhar card, Driving license or Passport.
Question: Do I need to preserve my XAT admit card even after the exam?
Answer: Yes, applicant need to preserve their XAT admit card till the process of final selection.
Question: Can I change my XAT exam centre after receiving my XAT admit card?
Answer: No, after downloading XAT admit card, applicant cannot change their XAT test centre. Though, they can do this at the time of the XAT correction window.
Checkout the official website of XAT 2025
--- https://mbaroi.in/mat/
About Mat Exam
About MAT Exam
What is MAT Exam?
Management Aptitude Test (MAT) is a standardized entrance exam conducted by the All India Management Association (AIMA) in India. It has been in operation since 1988 and is designed to facilitate business schools in selecting candidates for admission to MBA/PGDM and other associated management programs. MAT exam is held four times a year, usually in the months of February, May, September, and December. There are around 600+ business colleges who accept MAT as an entrance exam for admissions.
MAT Exam Pattern
Like others, AIMA also made some major changes to the MAT exam Pattern. Due to the spread of coronavirus, candidates can appear in the MAT entrance exam from their home. For this they come up with a Remote Proctored Internet Based Test which will allow candidates to appear in the MAT entrance exam from their home.
MAT is conducted in both paper-based (offline) and computer-based (online) formats. Candidates can choose their preferred mode of examination during the registration process. The test is conducted in a format of multiple choice questions. The MAT exam is typically conducted for a duration of 150 minutes (2 hours and 30 minutes).  Here is a breakdown of the MAT 2023 Exam pattern:
The test is conducted in a format of multiple choice questions.
When to begin MAT preparation?
How to Prepare For MAT?
What is Group Discussion?
--- https://mbaroi.in/mat/mat-exam-date/
MAT Dates - 2024 December
MAT Exam Decemeber 2024 Important Dates
AIMA declared the dates of MAT December 2024 cycle. Registrations for CBT 1, CBT 2 and PBT have started from07 September  and will close on  30th November 2024 . Candidates can download their admit card for  CBT 1 from 03 December to 07 December, CBT 2 from 18 December to 22 December and PBT from 10 December to 14 December . Exam dates of MAT 2024 December of CBT 1, CBT 2 and PBT are  08 December, 14 December and 22 December  respectively. Also as mentioned by the AIMA the result of the MAT 2024 examination will be announced in the  first week of January 2025  for all the tests.
MAT 2024 December PBT and CBT Dates
Here are the important dates of the upcoming Computer-based test (CBT) and Paper Based Test (PBT) of MAT -
MAT Exam 2024 Registration Fees
Candidates can opt for Computer Based Test (CBT) by paying a fee of INR 2100/-.
Candidates can opt for Paper Based Test (PBT) by paying a fee of INR 2100/-.
CBT + PBT - INR 3600/-
CBT + CBT – INR 3600/-
Candidate willing to appear in MAT can opt for both the tests i.e. PBT and CBT by paying an additional sum of 115/0- in addition to 2100/-. Those Candidates opting for both PBT and CBT will have the benefit of selecting additional 2 Management Institutions for sending their scores in addition to the existing option of selecting 5 Management Institutions i.e. they can select 7 Management Institutions in total.
Question. How many times MAT conducted in a year?
Answer. AIMA conducted the MAT 4 times a year in the months of February May, September, and December. Candidates can appear in MAT multiple times which saves their time. Since it is conducted 4 times a candidate has multiple chances to crack the exam and take admission in top mba colleges in India without wasting one whole year in preparation and waiting for the next session.
Find out  the Top MBA colleges in india accepting MAT score
--- https://mbaroi.in/mat/mat-eligibility-criteria/
MAT Exam Eligibility
The minimum qualification for appearing in MAT is graduation in any discipline from any recognized University or equivalent recognized degree.
A final year student in any undergraduate can also appear provisionally.
There is no age restriction.
Valid email address and phone number is required for verification and for further communications and/or notifications.
There is no minimum bar or weightage for graduation or in 10th or 10+2.
Candidates need to present the final year marksheet in order to take admission in any of the recognized institutions.
Selection Process
After result declaration aspirants can apply to any of the institutions who accept the MAT entrance exam. Candidates should note that institutions may have different processes to select candidates for their program. Candidates need to clear the selection process in order to take admission. Participating institutes can take all the three or any two rounds
Written Ability Discussion (WAD)
Possible Documents Required for further verification.
MAT Scorecard, MAT Admit Card and MAT Rank letter.
10, 12 and Graduation marksheet
Date of Birth Certificate.
5-10 Passport size photographs
Character Certificate
Reservation Certificate (if applicable)
Migration Certificate
Domicile Certificate
Self Attested Document.
--- https://mbaroi.in/mat/mat-syllabus/
MAT Syllabus
Complete Updated MAT Syllabus
Preparing for the MAT (Management Aptitude Test) is a crucial step for aspiring business school candidates, and understanding the syllabus is key to success. The MAT exam evaluates a wide range of skills, from quantitative aptitude to language comprehension, data analysis, and general awareness. In this blog, we’ll take a detailed look at the MAT exam syllabus, breaking down each section to help you focus your preparation and approach the exam with confidence. Whether you’re a first-time test taker or looking to improve your score, this guide will provide you with valuable insights to streamline your study plan.MAT Syllabus: In MAT Exam 2024 Candidate can opt for Computer Based Test (CBT), Paper Based Test (PBT), or Both.
Total number of questions: 200
Duration: 2:30 Hours
Score: 200
Negative Marking: 0.25
Section Wise MAT Syllabus
MAT syllabus for Language Comprehension section is divided into 2 parts. The 1st part covers topics on Reading Comprehension passages and the 2nd part covers topics on Grammar & other parts of Verbal Ability.
RC Syllabus covers current affairs making influence on Social Life, International Affairs, Govt policies and Schemes, i.e., Triple Talaq, Clean India Mission, Migration of people from one country to other, Growing intolerance across the Globe, Agricultural policies, poverty eradication programmes
Business & Economic RC Passages namely Global economic changes, economic development at the cost of environment, Impact of Demonetization in India, Wasteful expenditure by Governments
RC passages from various English Literature books, from articles authored by great philosophers and thinkers, from various speeches of great personalities like passages from Charles Dickens, Aristotle, Martin Luther King, Mohan Das Karam Chand Gandhi, Churchill, etc.
Passages on Science & Culture, including the journey to Modern world; Fading culture with the advancement of technology
RC Passages on Historical events leading to social changes for example French Revolution, War of Roses, Social changes in Indian History and thoughts shared by various activists which are very much relevant even today
RC Passages from Mythology. These passages try to correlate the Mythological events with the current social structure and answers to the questions on them must be inferred.
Abstract topics and fiction are also included in the Reading Comprehension Syllabus.
RC passage on any topic can be placed in MAT exam.
Number of Questions: 20
Sectional Weightage in MAT Syllabus: 50%
Type of passages in MAT Exam Syllabus on RC: 4 Short passages of moderate difficulty level
Division of questions: 5 questions based on each passage
Type of Questions: All MCQ type with penalty of ¼ negative marking
Format of questions: Questions based on information in RC passage; Antonyms/synonyms of the words & phrases as used in the passage; In context of the passage –True/false statements; central idea of RC passage.
Jumbled Paragraphs (3-4 questions)
Error Correction of Verb, Noun, Pronoun, Adjective, Adverb, and other Parts of Speech in the sentences.
Arranging the sequence of sentences in the paragraph, i.e. correct usage of conditional clause, time clause, reported speech, passive writing (3-4 questions)
Antonyms/Synonyms (5-6 questions)
Fill in the blanks (3-4 questions)
One-word substitution (1-2 questions)
Idioms/Phrases (2-3 questions)
Type of Questions: All MCQ type with penalty for wrong answer
Syllabus for Intelligence and Critical Reasoning has been refurbished. As a separate section in MAT exam, it is divided into 2 parts – Syllabus for Intelligence Reasoning and Syllabus for Critical Reasoning.
Fact Inference Judgment
Passage Conclusion
Analogy
Statement Argument
Logical Reasoning based on rankings
MAT entrance exam syllabus specifies that the questions in Reasoning section can be individual or in the set of 3-4 questions.
Weightage of Reasoning Syllabus questions: 20%
Weightage of Reasoning Section in MAT Percentile calculation: 25%
Total Reasoning questions in MAT syllabus for exam: 40
Type of Questions: MCQs
Formal style of topics in MAT Reasoning Syllabus: Questions were based on Family Relation, Statements - Cause & Effect, Clocks & Calendars, Statement – Assumptions, Reasons, analogies, direction, series, Incorrect Terms.
Syllabus for Mathematical skills refers to the Quantitative topics on which questions are based. The MAT syllabus for Mathematics section is vast. MAT syllabus for Quant covers everything in Mathematics that you may or may not expect. MAT exam syllabus 2021 on Quant is based on questions on different topics on Arithmetic, Algebra, Modern Math, Geometry, Mensuration, Trigonometry, etc.
Elementary Mathematics
Mixtures and Allegation
Unitary Method
Commercial Maths
Permutation and Combinations
Sequence and Series
Heights and Distance
Triangles
Circles
Coordinate Geometry
Venn diagrams and other topic-based questions are 2-3
Linear Programming
Number of Questions: 40.
Sectional weightage in MAT Syllabus: 20%
Sectional Weightage in Percentile calculation: 25%
Formal style in MAT exam syllabus for Mathematics shows that there was more emphasis on Arithmetic with number of questions going in the scale of 15 to 16.
Questions were based on Interest, Percentages, Time and Work, Profit, Loss, Partnership.
Other questions were based on topics like Equations, Ratio, Proportion & Variation, Geometry & Mensuration, Permutation and Combinations, Probability.
Syllabus for Data Analysis and Sufficiency covers topics on Data Interpretation. The MAT syllabus for Data Analysis and sufficiency section is very wide.
Data analysis and Data comparison, etc.
Venn diagram
Number of Questions: 40
Type of questions: MCQs
Sectional Weightage in Percentile Calculation: 25%
Formal style of topics in MAT Syllabus for Data Analysis & Sufficiency: Questions on Data Analysis were based on text, tables, graphs (line, area), charts (column, bar, pie), Venn diagram. Data could be given in form of tables, charts, or graphs.
This section had maximum questions on data interpretation
Data comparison time remained the main obstacle to solve these questions with speed and accuracy
Questions on Data Interpretation (DI) occupy more than 50% of the section, rest of the part cover questions on data sufficiency and data comparison
The questions in MAT question paper can be expected in sets as well as individual
MAT syllabus on Indian and Global Environment refers to the General Knowledge. It expects one to know everything that falls in the category of Business & Economy, who's who, Current affairs, Static GK, etc.
Major topics covered in MAT syllabus in this section are the GK topics current and static:
Current GK- based on current reading of newspapers and periodicals.
Business & Economics GK- i.e. Fiscal and monetary policy, CRR, Repo Rate,
Constitutional of India,
Identification of personalities, companies among others
Number of Questions:40
Sectional Weightage in Percentile Calculation: Nil
Formal style of topics in MAT Syllabus for Indian & Global Environment reveal that the questions were formed on Film Awards, Taxation & duties, Indian constitution, Who’s who, States of India, Sports, Recent events
Suggested time limit by AIMA to answer the 40 questions in this section is 15 minutes.
No re-thinking or recalling is needed for what you do not know or are confused on it. In case you do not know the answer, skip it.
Ideal time to attempt one question should be ideally around 20-30 seconds.
The questions are based on conventional GK, business and economics, current affairs, international affairs.
This section is not counted for percentile calculation in MAT exam
The best way to get a good practice on MAT question topics covered in MAT syllabus, is to go through the previous MAT exam papers and attempt MAT Mock tests.
Important Points about MAT Exam Syllabus
MAT exam syllabus is based on the stated guidelines and current structure of MAT exam.
MAT Exam Syllabus has no boundaries.
MAT 2021 exam syllabus is based on recent developments in MAT exams. The MAT syllabus is the result of the topics which have earlier appeared in MAT exam, though the type of questions, format and number may change in each ensuing MAT exam.
MAT exam Syllabus covers all the major topics on five test sections.
MAT preparation incomplete without MAT Syllabus
Any preparation is incomplete without acknowledging the syllabus first. It would be difficult to proceed with MAT preparation unless you know the MAT exam syllabus. MAT exam syllabus is much broader than one can expect. It does not leave any study topic untouched.
If you go through the MAT exam syllabus, it will help you to decide:
How to prepare for MAT?
What important topics should be covered.
--- https://mbaroi.in/blog/top-mba-colleges-accepting-mat-score/
Articles For MBA Students | MBAROI
Top MBA Colleges Accepting MAT Score – 2024
The MBA/PGDM colleges are now open for admissions for the 2024-26 batch and many of the students have already lauded their narrative in terms of choice of courses and colleges.  For MBA aspirants, the Common Admission Test (CAT) is considered the most prestigious of all the exams that pave their entry into the Top MBA colleges of India. While this stands true, many MBA aspirants consider taking MAT (Management Aptitude Test) tests equally important.  Many top MBA colleges in India accept MAT scores for admission to management courses offered by them.
MAT is conducted 4 times a year in February, May, September, and December. The test scores give you access to more than 820 B-schools in India. In this article, you will find the list of top MBA colleges in India accepting MAT Scores. MAT exam was conducted in 1988 for the very first time. It is designed to examine the aptitude of the candidates.
Additional Resource of MAT Exams:
MAT Exam Important Dates
MAT Eligibility
Syllabus of MAT
Updated List of Top MBA Colleges in India accepting MAT scores
These are very reputed and highly ranked colleges among the Top MBA colleges in India.
MBA Rankings – Top 10 MBA Colleges in India | Best MBA Colleges with Direct Admission | Top MBA Colleges in Delhi
There is a wide range of options for MBA programs to choose from, based on course fees, location, percentile, facilities, specializations, reputation, and much more. From expensive to affordable, every student has a chance to study according to their accessibilities. About 8% of MBA colleges, that are government-owned offer MBA and admit on the basis of MAT scores.
Also Read: IIM Placements | Best MBA Placements Colleges in India
Location Wise Business Schools Accepting the MAT Score
Management Aptitude Test (MAT)
Management Aptitude Test Popularly known as MAT, the test is conducted on a national scale by the All India Management Association (AIMA). About 91% of MBA colleges in India accept MAT scores for admission into their MBA wing. A few government colleges also accept the scores. The test can be a paper-based test (PBT) or computer-based test (CBT).
The number of students desiring to complete an MBA degree from a top-graded school is increasing every year. Due to this demand for seats, many colleges have emerged offering MBA courses.
Only a few colleges give credible management degrees and most of the top seats get filled by top performers. Yet there are a few other colleges of repute that offer the same level of quality education and do not just restrict their admissions to CAT and XAT percentiles; they accept scores from MAT exams too.
Must Read: Group Discussion: GD Types, Do’s & Don’ts, Trending GD Topics
Some Reasons Why You Should Take MAT Exam for MBA Admission
They are conducted quarterly each year saving time for candidates by not having to wait for next year’s exam for a better score.
Difficulty levels of the MAT Exam are lesser than CAT, with a simpler exam structure and well-divided sections.  The aim of a MAT exam is not to dig for the best among all, but to comprehend the examinee’s aptitude for the management world.
MAT exam scores have been accepted by top schools like the Department of Management Studies, IIT, Great Lakes Institutes of Management, Xavier Institute of Management and Entrepreneurship, etc.
Moreover, there is no upper age limit to apply for the MAT exam and there is no limitation on the number of attempts for taking the exam.
While registering, select at least 4-5 MBA institutes to pursue your MBA program. Selection of an appropriate MBA College assures good job placement in the future, making it more necessary to score high and get into the best college possible. Look at the list above and make an informed and intelligent decision toward a secure future.
10 Business and Leadership Books that help MBA Students Succeed
Top 10 MBA Colleges accepting MAT in Bangalore
OTT vs Theatre
Life Without Phone
Yes, the 80 percentile is good in the MAT exam. A candidate with 80 percentile can take admitted to some of the top MBA colleges accepting mat scores such as – ISBM Pune, Jaipuria Lucknow, and many more.
NO!, IIM does not accept the MAT result for admission instead they use the CAT score. But some other MBA Colleges accept the MAT for admission.
More than 1400 business schools from all over India accept MAT for admission. Management Institute such as Taxila Jaipur, ISBM Pune, SDMIMD Mysore,  Amrita School of Business Coimbatore, and many more renowned colleges.
Many government MBA colleges accept MAT scores and they have low fees in comparison to private business schools. Some of them are the Indian Institute of Social Welfare and Business Management – Kolkata, the National Institute of Technology Warangal, Malaviya National Institute of Technology Jaipur
Post Navigation
You may also like...
CAT Results 2024 Declared: Check Your Score Now
How an MBA Leads Startup Towards Success?
--- https://mbaroi.in/blog/mat-exam-preparation-strategy/
MAT Exam Preparation Strategy
MAT stands for Management Aptitude Test. In 2003, the Government of India, Ministry of HRD accepted MAT as a national level test for screening the candidates in taking admission for MBA in various Business Schools(B schools) whether national or international. This article is all about the MAT exam preparation strategy for the aspirants.
The MAT scores are considered by more than 600 B-Schools for selecting the students, then the further rounds of admission took place. MAT exam happens four times a year.
Also Read: Top MBA Colleges Accepting MAT Score
MAT exam is quite tough but with proper planning and preparation, the candidates can crack the exam easily. It is basically a speed-based test.  Comparative to other MBA entrance exams, the MAT exam is considered quite easy.
Following is the Exam Pattern for MAT
The exam is for 200 marks.
There are 5 sections in the exam-1. Language Comprehension2. Mathematical Skills3. Data Analysis and sufficiency4. Intelligence and critical reasoning5. Indian and global environment
Each section is compromised of 40 questions.
The medium of the exam would be in English
All the questions are in the form of MCQ’s
The time limit for the exam is 150 minutes
Negative marking would be there.
There are three modes for the exam to choose from-A) Computer-Based testB) Paper-Based testC) Internet-Based test
The latest MAT exam will soon be conducted in December 2021. Candidates can check the official MAT website for the notifications, registration and can apply accordingly.
Also Read: MAT Exam Syllabus and MAT Exam Important Dates
The MAT exam preparation strategy would include section-wise preparation, proper study plan, taking help of coaching institute, etc.
Following are the sections of the MAT exam and some easy and short tips to prepare for each section-
Language Comprehension- This section will test students’ verbal reasoning and comprehension skills. It includes questions on Para-jumbles, error detection, reading passages, etc.Candidates have to focus on their grammar, reading, and verbal skills properly. Make your vocabulary strong by reading or writing.
Mathematical Skills- This section will focus on and test students’ numerical and mathematical skills. It will include questions on topics like- algebra, geometry, etc.Students have to clear their concepts beforehand. Practice more and more questions before and within a particular time limit. It will test your speed and calculations.
Data Analysis and sufficiency- This section will test students’ investigation and analytical skills. It will include questions based on graphs, tables, or charts.It is a tricky section. Students have to understand the diagrams and the pattern carefully and answer accordingly.
Intelligence and critical reasoning- This section test the intelligence level and logical reasoning of the candidates. It includes questions on topics like- Blood relations, Coding-decoding, Critical reasoning, etc.Students should carefully read and understand what is being asked. Be accurate and precise for the answers, don’t just guess.
Indian and global environment- This section test students’ knowledge of current affairs and events happening over the world. It asks questions on any topics including politics, history, current trends, etc.There is no method, calculations, or formulas for this section. Students have to read newspapers, magazines, blogs daily to improve their knowledge of the world.
Now to prepare yourself well for the MAT exam, the candidates must prepare a solid study plan and follow that accordingly. A well-defined and properly organized study plan defining the student’s goals, routine tasks, topics to study should be considered.
A proper MAT exam study plan and preparation strategy should include-
Keep track of all the section-wise and topic-wise content and go through them systematically one-by-one.
Keep a timer or stopwatch for each question; it will improve your speed.
Try to solve any one section or a few topics in a day.
Sleep for at least 7-8 hours a day. So that you don’t feel sleepy or tired at the time of practicing.
Avoid unhealthy foods and eat healthily. Keep yourself safe from the flu or viruses that are currently going on.
Take small breaks in between to regain your energy and become refreshed.
Meditate for some minutes in the morning.
Read newspapers daily in the morning and also other things like magazines, blogs, journals, etc.
Also Read: How to prepare for the MAT exam?
You can change or mold the study plan according to your needs too.
Go forward and adapt to this plan so that you can have some time for yourself and your study too.
Also below are some steps to prepare yourself for the MAT exam in a month-
We all know that one month is very little time for studying and preparing oneself for the exam. But by following the proper study plan mentioned above and some tips mentioned below, candidates can score well in the exams.
First, start by writing down your goals for the exam and for the future. Get a clear idea in your mind about why and what you are doing.
Take help or guidance from your teachers or whom you consider close. It will boost you and motivate you for your studies.
Don’t take too much pressure or stress in your mind. Keep calm and meditate for some time too.
Solve mock test papers and previous year’s papers every day. You will get to know in which topic or section you’re weak and strong. Which area to focus upon without wasting any more time. You can improve and practice more from that. Also, you will get a clear idea about the exam pattern and format too.
Time management is an important part of success, so manage your time with a proper study plan. Allot a specific time for each section. Read carefully and then answer. If you find any topic or question difficult in the exam or in studies, don’t waste much time on that and move to other questions. It will improve your speed too.
Read as much as you can.
One can also join prominent MBA entrance exam coaching institutes in their city as a crash one-month course and can manage self-study and proper guidance from teachers also. Group study also helps a lot to cope up with the last time stress of exams.
Even if you want to prepare MAT Exam yourself without joining any coaching institutes, you have to keep the following preparation strategy in your mind-
Follow the study plan
Have a fast internet connection to practice online
Download online series section-wise or topic-wise
Read online or offline books
If one can arrange notes of the institutes and study on their own, can also be considered.
Practice more and more at home.
And at last keep 4R’s in mind- Re-vise, Re-value, Re-read, and Re-asses.
Books also help a lot. So also suggesting the candidates the various important section-wise books to be read online or hardcopy for MAT Preparation.
I hope this article has helped you in some way or the other. Study well and all the best.
When to begin MAT preparation?  What is the difference between MAT and CAT exams?  10 Business and Leadership Books that help MBA Students Succeed  Solved Group Discussion Topics For MBA Aspirants
20 Days for CAT 2024 Exam
WHAT TO DO ONE NIGHT BEFORE CAT EXAM
CMAT 2025 Result Out – Expected Cutoff and How to Download?
--- https://mbaroi.in/gmat/
About Gmat Exam
About GMAT Exam
What is GMAT?
The Graduate Management Admission Test(GMAT) exam is a computer-based test that evaluates the candidates’ analytical writing, quantitative, verbal and reading skills in standard written English. This test is taken to get admission into a graduate management program, such as MBA and related courses in business schools across the world. After taking this exam, the score card is valid till 5 yrs. Student can take admission in any of the college who accept GMA.
This Exam started in 1953 and was managed by the Graduate Management Admission Council. There are 650 test centers in 114 countries. Around 2300 Graduate b schools accept GMAT entrance exams to give admission in around 7000 courses.
Time Management Strategies for GMAT Exam
9 Tips to Make Your GMAT Preparation More Effective
--- https://mbaroi.in/gmat/gmat-exam-date/
GMAT Important Dates
Date And Time
This Exam Conducted multiple times within a year. Aspirants can register themselves through mba.com or by calling one of the test centers. Appointment must be made on any of the assigned test centers. After appointment, candidates need to give the exam on the selected date. If a candidate is willing to re attempt the exam then after 16 days he/she can re-attempt the exam by following the same procedure.
Structure of The Exam
Total 3 hrs of GMAT exam contains 4 sections with separate time for each one. Candidates have the option to take two optional 8 minutes breaks during the exam. See the below table for more details
Analysis of an Argument
Multi-Score Reasoning
Table Analysis
Graphics Interpretation
Two-Part Analysis
Reading Comprehension
Sentence Correction
--- https://mbaroi.in/gmat/gmat-eligibility-criteria/
GMAT Exam Eligibility
This Exam is broadly taken by mba aspirants who wish to study abroad. This exam is primarily designed to test Verbal Skills, Integrated Reasoning, Quantitative Aptitude and Analytical Writing Assessment. There is a huge list of colleges abroad who accept admission of GMAT students. There are around 3lakh test takers in India who attempt for GMAT.
Below are the points to be considered for:
The candidate must be 18 years of age or above (if the candidate is between 13 and 17yrs old then he/she needs a written permission from a parent or legal guardian.)
There is no upper age limit of the candidate.
Candidates who want to enrol for an MBA programme should have a graduate degree in any discipline from a recognized university.
Candidates cannot take the exam more than 5 times within a rolling 12 months period. Candidates need to wait for 16 days to appear in the exam again.
Each candidate has 8 attempts in total to appear in GMAC.
--- https://mbaroi.in/gmat/gmat-syllabus/
GMAT Syllabus
Complete Syllabus
The Analytical Writing section consists of topics which the candidate will have to write on, or passage on which questions will be asked. Based on the passage, the candidate will have to answer. The syllabus for this section is enormous and diverse as the topic of the passage could be any topic of significance. The main idea is to focus on the form of the answer and not the arguments presented.
In this section, you must examine the reasoning and then give your argument.
In this section, you must write an essay on the issue given to you. The candidate must give an opinion in around 600 words. The opinion can be in support of the given statement or against it.
Remember, you will be judged on your writing style.
The Integrated Reasoning section is the new addition in the GMAT Exam. This section tests the candidates’ capability to assess the data presented in graph or table format. This section has 12 questions of the subsequent type:
It measures the candidates’ abilities to solve difficult problems. The problems can be verbal, quantitative, or a combination of both. The format is flexible and covers a broad range of content. The candidates’ capability to solve synchronized equations, evaluate trade-offs, and discern relationships between two units is measured.
This section measures candidates’ ability to sort out and analyze a table comprising data, like a spreadsheet, to clarify the important information or the one that unites specific conditions.
Multi-Source Reasoning
It measures candidates’ skills to analyze data from various tables, graphics, text passages, or a combination of all the three and analyze each source of data thoroughly for answering multiple questions. The candidates will be asked to pull inferences and rest may require you to ascertain whether data is crucial. In a few questions, candidates will have to identify inconsistencies among different sources of data.
It evaluates candidates’ capability to understand the information presented in a graph or graphical image (scatter plot, x/y graph, bar chart, pie chart, or statistical curve distribution) to find out relationships, and make inferences.
The Quantitative Section comprises of two sections, Data Sufficiency and Problem Solving. In the Data Sufficiency, there are 18 questions and in Problem Solving, there are 18 questions as well. The questions are objective type and will have multiple choice answers. In this section the questions can be expected from the following math syllabus:
It processes the candidates’ abilities to use logic and analytical reasoning for solving quantitative problems.
It processes the candidates’ ability to examine a quantitative problem, recognize which data is important.
Elementary Algebra
Arithmetic
Ratio Proportions
Properties of Integers
Permutation and combinations
Exponents and roots
Linear equations.
This Verbal Skills section comprises of 36 MCQs. The portion is divided into Critical Reasoning, Reading Comprehension and Sentence Correction. It tests the candidates’ ability to grasp the written material, read and understand the logical relationship between the points stated in the passage and concepts.
It evaluates the candidates' ability to make arguments, evaluate arguments, and formulate or evaluate a plan of action.
It evaluates the candidates’ ability to draw inferences, understand logical relationships between significant points, understand words and statements, and follow the development of quantitative concepts. Other than this, the candidates’ will be assessed on the following reading skills: inference, application, main idea, supporting the idea, logical structure, and style.
The section evaluates two comprehensive facets of the candidates’ language proficiency. The first facet is to correct expression while referring to sentences that are grammatically and structurally sound. The second facet is an effective expression while referring to sentences that effectively express an idea or relationship clearly, concisely, and grammatically.
Critical reasoning
Rhetorical construction of the sentences
Sentence correction related to finding error or omission
Reading unseen passages
Subject-verb agreement
Misplace modifiers
Countable Vs Uncountable
Parallelism
Preparation Tips for GMAT Syllabus
To prepare for GMAT, you will require few good GMAT books and resources, along with study material, motivation, and self-discipline. If time is a restriction for you and you feel the need for professional guidance, then joining a coaching institute for GMAT preparation is a good option.
--- https://mbaroi.in/nmat/
About NMAT Exam
Know All About NMAT Exam
Full Form of NMAT is NMIMS Management Aptitude Test and the Exam conducted body is GMAC.
NMAT is a National Level MBA entrance exam. This is one of the toughest MBA entrance exam. After clearing this exam MBA aspirants are eligible to apply for most of the prestigious colleges in India and overseas. Indian MBA Colleges like NMIMS Mumbai, SPJIMR Mumbai (PGMPW), ISB (Certificate programme), VIT Vellore, Taxila Business School, XIM Bhubaneswar and many other MBA colleges. The test can be attempted up to three times during a 70-day window, with the next attempt scheduled after the first.
checkout the detailed information about NMAT exam date and timing
The NMAT test registration and the School Application process are two different steps. Initially candidate must clear the NMAT exam and then the aspirant can apply for different b-schools. In this article you will get all the updated information relate to NMAT and modifications in the eligibility criteria and admission process of the NMAT.
Aspirants appearing this year can take a maximum of three attempts within a testing year (Nov 05, 2024, to Dec 20, 2024). A minimum gap of 15 days between two attempts is mandatory. Retake exam can only be booked after taking the previous attempt.
Expert Advice: As seats for test is based on first come first serve basis, below are the number of attempts that you will be able to take based on when you appear for the first exam. Aspirants are recommended to plan their first attempt as soon as possible, so that one may consume all three attempts in case you wish to improve your score.
Structure and Scores
In NMAT exam candidates get randomly generated questions from a large pool of questions and shown to the examinee one-at-a-time. The total questions, difficulty levels, and the time to complete for each of the sections is pre fixed and, and same across all test centres.
Aspirants have a choice of selecting the sequence of the test sections.
The NMAT exam has following three sections:
Language Skills
Quantitative Skills
All the three sections of the NMAT have individual time limits so aspirants need to answer questions of each section within the pre fixed time.
Language Skills: Reading Comprehension, Para Forming, Error Identification Prepositions, Sentence Completion, Analogies
Logical Reasoning: Critical Reasoning, Analytical Puzzles, Deductions, Other Reasoning
Quantitative Skills: Number Properties, Arithmetic, Algebra and Probability, DI Caselets and Tables, DI Graphs and Charts, Data Sufficiency
The aspirants should receive the score card with scaled score for all the sections and total for Test within 48 hours of taking the test. Email is also sent to the candidate for downloading score card.
This is little typical of the NMAT exam. Questions in the NMAT exam are selected from the question pool for each candidate based on their performance on the questions answered in the recent past. Questions the examinee gets are focussed at their ability level; so, a top- scoring aspirant in general will receive more difficult set of questions than a low-scoring aspirant.
The NMAT exam is scored by first finding the candidate’s final ability assessment based on the probabilistic model approach of new exam theory, and then converted to a scaled score ranging from 12 to 120.
Register & Schedule
One needs to register and pay the application fee for NMAT exam before setting up an exam date and location. For taking admission in a particular B School students are required to visit the website of that particular B School and apply their separately.
Registration and Payment
Create an account on register.nmat.org using a valid email address.
Submit your contact information, personal, educational and work experience, the list of programmes to send scores, and the ID that you will use for identification on the day of the exam. Show your interest in taking part in a search service and you need to agree to the terms and conditions.
Your name and date of birth that you enter on the registration form needs to be the same as on your Photo and Signature ID.
You need to choose the college to send your scores under the "Schools Preference" section. Maximum 5 programmes are incorporated in your registration fee. An additional fee of INR 300 + taxes will be levied for every programme added extra of 5 programs.
One needs to upload a photograph that should be similar to you and the photograph on your Photo ID. This photograph will be incorporated on the admit card that you need to show to the test centre administrator at the test centre or to the online proctor.
Pay the exam fee.
On receiving your payment the ‘schedule exam’ option is triggered in your dashboard, so that you may schedule your exam. You can book any slot after 24 hours from the time of booking.
Now you need to select the exam mode, whether you want to write exam at the Test Centre or Online Proctored at Home.
Schedule at Test Center
Click on the Book Exam button to reach the scheduling system.
Choose the Country and City and Test Centre and choose the date and time when you would like to take the exam
Schedule Online Proctored Test at Home (applicable for India and the rest of the world)
First step shall be to fill out the My Profile section before moving onto Scheduling exam appointment
Users can setup their photo identification by uploading a Government issued ID. This ID must be uploaded for verification purposes. The following instructions are provided to the user.
Take a picture of your photo ID using a smartphone or a camera or webcam on your PC.
Save the image of the picture to your PC.
Upload the image from your PC to Examity scheduling system
Users can select from an available list of security questions to setup 3 security questions.
System will prompt you to answer 1 of these security questions during your authentication process when you login to take the exam so please remember or note down your responses
Exam Appointment
Please select the date and correct time zone to schedule the exam. Candidates in India should choose the time zone - (UTC+05:30) Chennai, Kolkata, Mumbai, New Delhi. Please ensure you choose the correct time zone as the ‘Begin Test’ button will be enabled at the time chosen by you.
User enters first name, last name, first name and last name and re-enters first name and last name.
No spaces or capital letters are to be used while entering this information. System will save the keystroke entry of the data that is entered, and this will be used as part of the authentication process when you login to take the exam.
If user fails to successfully enter ExamiKEY information 3 times, a red flag is raised.
You will be able to download your NMAT admit card from your dashboard once the payment is realized.
To enquire about registration, email nmatsupport@gmac.com.
You will be allowed to take the NMAT by GMAC™ exam a maximum of three times during the year’s testing period. This includes the first attempt plus a maximum of two retake attempts. No shows are considered attempts.
Your retake registration option will be enabled in your dashboard after your exam date. You need to register for the retake by simply clicking on the Retake section, selecting the exam mode and pay the retake fees.
Retake can be booked after the end of a scheduled attempt and the retake test can only taken after a gap of 15 days from the last attempt.
Online Proctored Exam at Home is accessible on few dates within the testing period and will be reserved on first come first serve basis.
Test Registration (Early): INR 3000 + applicable taxes
Retake: INR 3000 + applicable taxes
Additional Score: Reports (beyond first five): INR 400 per Score Report + applicable taxes
Reschedule: INR 1200 + applicable taxes
Payment forms accepted:  Visa MasterCard, American Express, Debit card,Internet banking and Diners Club
ON EXAM DAY:
ID Requirements, Exam at the Test Centre in India:
On exam day, reach at the test centre 45 minutes before starting your exam. You need to vary these documents with you: Confirmation email and Admit Card
One valid Photo ID and another Signature ID in original form must be presented from the list below for candidates taking exam at test centres in India:
ID Requirements: List of Photo IDs (Having your name and photo)
Indian Passport
Indian PAN Card
Voter's ID Card
Aadhaar Card
List of Signature IDs (Having Aspirants name and signature)
Indian PAN
Debit Card
Credit Card
Following documents will not be accepted as ID.
Learner’s driving license
Photocopies (attested or otherwise)
Notarized copies
All the Aspirants need to mandatorily submit a health self-declaration at the test centre. This form will be provided to the candidates at the test centre.
Note: If by any means candidate is not able to show the above forms of valid ID, Admit Card or confirmation email (this can be shown on your mobile or taken as a printout) aspirants will not be allowed to enter the exam hall and will not receive the exam fee refund.
For online Proctored Exam at Home: On the day of exam, login to Examity website 15 minutes prior to your test schedule.
You are required to show the following documents to the proctor:
Confirmation email, either in the inbox or a print.
NMAT admit card.
Any other document as advised by the proctor for differently abled aspirants.
Valid Photo ID and Signature ID in original.
For International Locations aspirants taking are required to show the following documents on the test day.
Confirmation email, may be shown in your mailbox or as a print.
Valid Original passport
Top 10 MBA College in India
Top 50 MBA College in India
Top 100 MBA College in India
--- https://mbaroi.in/nmat/about-nmat-exam/
What is NMAT?
NMAT is a national-level computer-based MBA entrance test vital for MBA admission in Top MBA colleges like NMIMS Mumbai, SPJIMR Mumbai (PGMPW), ISB, VIT Vellore, and other MBA colleges in India. Conducted by GMAC, the NMAT 2023 dates for NMAT registration are from Aug 01 to October 12 and the NMAT exam is planned from October 10, 2023 to December 19, 2023.
NMAT 2023 exam syllabus for the exam has been revised for the NMAT 2023 exam structure. To be well equipped for NMAT, it is crucial to follow the amended NMAT syllabus 2023.
Placement Wise Best MBA Colleges
--- https://mbaroi.in/nmat/nmat-exam-date/
NMAT Important Dates
NMAT Exam 2024 Important Dates
The NMAT Exam 2024 is a key entrance test for aspirants seeking admission to leading business schools. Registration for the exam starts on August 1, 2024, and closes on October 13, 2024. Exam scheduling and rescheduling are available during this period, with the exam itself scheduled between November 5 and December 20, 2024. Candidates can expect their scores to be released from November 5 to December 31, 2024, with scorecards available within 48 hours post-exam. The registration fee is Rs. 3000 (plus tax), with additional fees applicable for retakes, rescheduling, and sharing scores with extra B-Schools.
NMAT Exam Date - 2023
Result Date of NMAT 2024
Registration Fee (without Late Fee): Rs. 3000/- (plus tax)
Retake Fee (with Late Fee): Rs. 3000/- (plus tax)
Exam Rescheduling Fee: Rs. 1200/- (plus tax)
Additional fees to share NMAT Score with other B-Schools (beyond first five) : INR 400 per Score Report + applicable taxes
--- https://mbaroi.in/nmat/nmat-eligibility-criteria/
NMAT Exam Eligibility
Candidate must hold a bachelor’s degree
Minimum required marks as per the requirement of MBA college.
Candidates in final year of Graduation can also apply.
Candidates with professional degree or anyone waiting for the result can also apply
NMAT eligibility does not have any age bar to appear in NMAT 2024 exam
Candidate should have scored atleast 50% in Graduation.
--- https://mbaroi.in/nmat/nmat-syllabus/
NMAT Syllabus
NMAT Syllabus is divided into three major sections. The number of questions in each section of NMAT are different. The questions are of MCQ type and requires to be tried within the allotted time limit.
The overall composition of the NMAT 2024 syllabus covers major topics in each of the three sections:
Total questions:36
Time limit marks: 28 Minutes
The Language skill section in NMAT Syllabus covers the topics to test Reading Comprehension, Verbal Ability and English Language Skills. The Language Skills section will test on the following major topics in three broad segments:
Vocabulary
Grammar
Comprehension
The question types that you can anticipate in the NMAT exam:
Synonyms
Antonyms
Fill in the Blanks
Cloze Test
Identify the Error
Choose the Correct Preposition
Parajumbles
Syllabus for NMAT exam on Language Skills is accurately described. There will be 32 questions in the Language Skills section on the NMAT. Candidateswill be required to attempt this section in 22 minutes.
Language Skills syllabus for NMAT will have questions on three areas of English: vocabulary, grammar, and comprehension.
Time limit marks: 40 Minutes
Questions included in the NMAT Syllabus for this section are based on Analytical Reasoning, Logical Reasoning, Critical Reasoning, Series completion. NMAT 2024 Syllabus on Logical Reasoning is devised to assesscandidate’scapability to figure out and integrate the information given in the question.
The questions based on NMAT Syllabus topics in this section. Candidates will be asked to draw inferences from the statements, choose between strong and weak arguments, identify assumptions implicit within innocent-looking statements and even arrive at decisions in light of the given information.
The Logical Reasoning section on the NMAT by GMAC Exam tests you on the two broad areas of reasoning:
Verbal Reasoning
Analytical Reasoning
Verbal Reasoning includes the following topics:
Statement and Argument Questions
Statement and Assumption Questions
Statement and Inference Questions
Decision making and Course of Action
Analytical Reasoning syllabus for NMAT contains following major topics:
Linear and Circular Arrangements
Classification
Syllogisms
Blood Relation Questions
Coding Questions
Series Questions
Direction Questions
Alphabet Test Questions
Input Output questions
Matrix Type Questions
Symbol Based Questions
Other Reasoning Questions
The NMAT syllabus for this section can be covered with regular practice. There will be 36 questions in the Logical Reasoning section on the NMAT exam. You need to attempt them in 40 minutes.
You need to cover the NMAT Syllabus on two areas of Reasoning: Verbal Reasoning and Analytical Reasoning.
Time limit marks: 52 Minutes
NMAT Syllabus and Exam Pattern for Quantitative Skills covers all the topics on Mathematics. The quant questions as per the NMAT 2024 Syllabus and Exam Pattern will not be exceedingly difficult in the upcoming exam.
The Quantitative skills section contains questions not only on Quant but also on Data Interpretation and Data Sufficiency.
The questions can be time consuming if not exceedingly difficult. Number system, PnC, Algebra, Mensuration, Geometry are the prominent topics covered in the NMAT by GMAC syllabus in this section.
The Quantitative Skills section in NMAT covers the following topics:
Time & Work
Simple & Compound Interest
Ratio-Proportions
Numbers
Other Questions on Arithmetic
HCF-LCM
Equations
Log
Quadratic Equation
Absolute Value
Other questions on Algebra
Lines
Angles
Polygons
Circles-radius, circumference, diameter, chord, Arc, Tangent etc
Square & Rectangles
Pythagoras Theorem
Base Angle Theorem
Longest Side Theorem
Quadrilaterals
Parallelogram
Rhombus
Trapezium
Cylinder
Cone
Sphere
3 Dimensional Figures
Cuboid
Venn Diagrams
Permutation & Combination
Progression-Arithmetic, Geometric, Harmonic, Relationship
Line Graphs
Pie Chart
Bar Chart
Tables
To prepare for NMAT, it would be best if you go through the syllabus completely and memorize it. NMAT syllabus is subject to change every year. Another way is to attempt previous years question papers and take mock tests. Go through the preparatory books which are available in the market. You can also join some classes that helps you prepare well for the exam.
Remember: NMAT preparation incomplete without NMAT Syllabus
NMAT preparation is incomplete without acknowledging the syllabus in the beginning. It would be tricky to proceed with NMAT preparationunless you know the NMAT exam syllabus.
If you go through the NMAT exam syllabus, it will help you to decide
When to begin?
How to prepare for NMAT?
NMAT exam syllabus is based on the specified guidelines and current structure of NMAT exam.
NMAT Exam Syllabus does not come with any boundaries.
NMAT 2024 exam syllabus is mostly based on the recent changes.
NMAT Exam Syllabus covers all the major topics.
The syllabus is available online to download
--- https://mbaroi.in/snap/
About snap Exam
About SNAP Exam
SNAP 2024 Updates
SNAP 2024 application process is going on the last date to fill out the examination form is November 22, 2024. Candidates can fill out the exam registration form for SNAP 2024 at snaptest.org. Exam dates for SNAP 2024 are 08 December, 15 December and 21 December. The First Mock test for the examination was conducted on October 04 2024 and the second mock test will be available on 23 October 2024. SNAP stands for Symbiosis National Aptitude Test and is conducted for admission in 16 Institutes of Symbiosis.  Apart from SIU constituent institutes, JK Business School-Gurgaon also accepts SNAP scores for admission to its MBA programmes.
What is SNAP Test?
The Symbiosis National Aptitude Test (SNAP) is a common entrance exam conducted by Symbiosis International University for admission to 16 institutions affiliated with the Symbiosis Institutes. This exam is for admission to various MBA/PGDM programs including MBA, MSc (CA), MSc (SS), and many more. Symbiosis Institute of Business Management, ranked in the Top 20 Management Institutes list published by the MHRD-NIRF in 2019, is one of the top MBA colleges that accepts SNAP scores.
SNAP is an important entrance test for candidates seeking admission to the Symbiosis Institutes, which are well-regarded institutions in the field of management education in India.
The SNAP Test is a computer-based exam and the question paper comprises 60 MCQs that assess candidates on their aptitude in various skills such as general English, analytical and logical reasoning, quantitative, data interpretation, and data sufficiency. The test is typically held in December every year. The applicant who scores the highest on SNAP 2023 will be given consideration for admission to SIU. SNAP allows candidates up to three attempts.
Candidates who wish to pursue a management program at one of the Symbiosis Institutes need to appear for SNAP and qualify for the respective institute's selection process, which may include a group discussion (GD), personal interview (PI), and written ability test (WAT). Admission to a specific program and institute is based on the candidate's performance in the SNAP Test and their overall profile.
--- https://mbaroi.in/snap/snap-exam-date/
SNAP Important Dates
SNAP Exam 2024 Important Dates
The application process for SNAP 2024 is currently open, with the last date to submit the exam registration form being November 22, 2024. Candidates interested in appearing for the SNAP 2024 exam can complete their registration by visiting the official website at snaptest.org.
The SNAP 2024 exam will be conducted on three dates: December 8, December 15, and December 21, 2024. For those preparing, the first mock test was held on October 4, 2024, and the second mock test is scheduled for October 23, 2024.
SNAP, which stands for the Symbiosis National Aptitude Test, is a national-level entrance exam for admission to 16 institutes under Symbiosis International University (SIU). In addition to SIU’s constituent institutes, JK Business School in Gurgaon also accepts SNAP scores for its MBA programs.
December 08, 2024
December 15, 2024
December 21, 2024
SNAP Exam 2024 Registration Fees
SNAP 2024 Registration Fee is Rs. 2250/- per test
SNAP 2024 Application Process
The deadline to apply for the 2024 SNAP registration/application is November 22, 2024, with the process beginning on August 23. Candidates are required to fill out the online application form at the SNAP website. The SNAP (Symbiosis National Aptitude Test) application process typically consists of the following steps for the SNAP 2024 exam:
Visit the SNAP 2024 official website and click on "Register" (https://www.snaptest.org/)  to create an account.
After successful registration, complete the SNAP application form which includes personal details, academic information, and choice of MBA programs and institutes. Make sure to review your information for accuracy.
Pay the SNAP application fee online through the available payment options.
Upload a passport-sized photograph as per the specified format and size.
Double-check all the details you've entered. Once you are satisfied, submit your application.
The exact application dates and fees for SNAP 2024 will be available on the official SNAP website, so it's important to check the website regularly for updates and deadlines. Be sure to read the official SNAP guide and instructions provided on the website for any specific requirements or changes in the application process.
--- https://mbaroi.in/snap/snap-eligibility-criteria/
SNAP Exam Eligibility
Graduates belonging to any discipline with at least 50 per cent cumulative (45 per cent for SC/ST/PWD candidates) from a recognized university can apply for SNAP.
Final year students may apply for SNAP, given their admission would be on hold till they present clearance from their respective university.
International students can also apply, provided they have obtained a certificate of equivalence from the Association of Indian Universities of their graduation from an
international university.
--- https://mbaroi.in/snap/snap-syllabus/
SNAP Syllabus
SNAP 2024 exam dates are December 08, 2024, December 15, 2024, December 21, 2024 and the exam will be held from 2PM to 3PM as a computer-based test. Symbiosis International University (SIU) Pune conducts SNAP exam each year for admission to its 16 principal Symbiosis MBA colleges.
The last date to apply for SNAP 2024 is November 22, 2024. SNAP exam full form - Symbiosis National Aptitude Test suggests that the exam is meant mainly for admission to Symbiosis Institutes.
Syllabus Overview
Section Highlights:This section contains all the elements of English Language and the major parts included are English Language, Reading Comprehension Passages, Verbal
Reasoning and Verbal Ability.
Number of Questions: 30
Normal Questions (MCQs): 30
Special Questions (Non-MCQs): Nil
Maximum available score: 45 Marks
Sectional Weightage in SNAP Syllabus: 30%
2 RC Passage followed by 10 questions.
RC topics are based on Facts, Opinion, Literature, Current Affairs, etc.
The SNAP Syllabus on RC passages does not toss difficult questions.
RC Based questions are related to the RC passage contents.
Synonyms, Antonyms, Fill in the Blanks.
Idioms, Phrases, Vocabulary usage.
Jumbled Paragraphs.
Correction of Errors in sentences.
Core Grammar usage – Conditionals, Active Passive, Indirect Narration etc.
Identifying Parts of Speech
Section Highlights:This section syllabus includes questions on Quantitative Aptitude, Data Interpretation & Data Sufficiency. Although Questions on Data  Interpretation are constrained, they sometimes prove extensive than questions on Quant and use major part of the time.
Number of Questions: 35
Special Questions (Non-MCQs): 5
Maximum available score: 40 Marks
Sectional Weightage in SNAP Syllabus: 27%
Arithmetic-Percentage, Profit-Loss, Interest, Time- Speed-Distance, Averages, Ratio etc.
ProbabilityFunctions
Graphs-Pie Chart
Bar Graph
Section Highlights:SIU Pune has refurbished the Current Affairs section in SNAP Exam Syllabus and has made it easier for the candidates. The Current Affairs Syllabus in SNAP is limited to the current affairs of last 2 years.
Normal Questions (MCQs): 20
Maximum available score: 20 Marks
Sectional Weightage in SNAP Syllabus: 13%
SNAP Syllabus Topics: Economics, finance, national and international current affairs are a few of the many topics on which questions are placed in this section.
Business & Economics
Personalities & Awards
Sports
International Events
Science & Technology
Geography
Missions of the Countries
Miscellaneous
Section Highlights:This section comprises areas like computing, visualization, articulation, and problem solving, topics. The questions may be in the set or individual ones depending upon the nature of the problem.
Weightage 30%
Syllabus Topics: SNAP syllabus contains following important topics in this section.
Family Tree – Blood Relations
Direction Sense
Clocks & Calendars
Mathematical Reasoning
Meaningful Word, Matrix
Visual reasoning
Verbal and Miscellaneous Reasoning
SNAP Preparation
The SNAP syllabus is wide enough to trip anyone over. Many topics are added or deleted every year, so it is advisable to go through the syllabus before beginning your preparation to
be on the safe side. You could boost your preparation by purchasing preparatory books available in the market or join an institute which helps prepare for SNAP. It would also be good if you can get in touch with someone who has appeared for SNAP before and he/she can give you some key points to ace it.
SNAP syllabus is available to download on various website.
--- https://mbaroi.in/atma/
About ATMA Exam
What is ATMA Exam?
AIMS Test for Management Admissions or ATMA is a national-level exam conducted by the Association of Indian Management Schools (AIMS) for admission to MBA, PGDM, MCA and PGDBA courses.
The exam is organized four times a year. More than 500 management institutes across India accept ATMA scores for admission to their management programmes. The test intends to
evaluate the aptitude of candidates which is required for higher management studies.
--- https://mbaroi.in/atma/atma-eligibility-criteria/
ATMA Exam Eligibility
Candidates planning to give ATMA exam should be a citizen of India.
Any graduate with a minimum of 50% cumulative or equivalent CGPA, from a recognised university, is eligible to apply.
Candidates who are in their final year of graduation can apply tentatively.
There is no age limit.
No work experience required.
ATMA scores are accepted in more than 500 colleges. Below is a list of few colleges that accept ATMA exam scores in India.
Manipal University
Taxila Business School, Jaipur
International School of Management and Research, Pune
ISBR Business School, Bangalore
New Delhi Institute of Management, Delhi
--- https://mbaroi.in/atma/atma-syllabus/
ATMA Syllabus
ATMA is changed to AI Auto Proctoring Test from one’s home instead of Centre based online test
It is compulsory to appear in Demo Test before the actual ATMA exam from your home
Registered candidates need to login with their PID and Password at official exam website atmaaims.com
Candidates need to make proper Computer Arrangements with necessary browser versions at their home
The test is distributed over six sections, each section is split into two parts - I and II
Questions are asked from Analytical Reasoning, Verbal Skills, and Quantitative Skills as per the ATMA exam pattern
Duration of the test is three hours
Each section must be essentially solved within 30 minutes
The score is calculated out of 180
ATMA test intends to evaluate a candidate’s aptitude in a variety of management skills. Hence, questions in the exam are outlined in such a way that requires sensible analysing and
logical thinking capabilities, verbal, and numerical ability.
There are three major sections in ATMA Exam syllabus. Each of the three sections is further divided into two parts making ATMA exam syllabus specifying key topics and questions for
six sections.
Number of Questions: 30+30
Sectional Time Limit: 30 minutes+30 minutes = 1 hour
A candidate must have the analytical skills to analyse the situation and arrive at conclusions to write answers. A candidate will be expected to answer questions based on Critical
Reasoning, Course of Action, Statement-Inference, Strong/Weak Arguments, Coding-decoding, so far and so forth.
Coding-decoding
Course of Action
Arguments
Statement-Inference
Statements & conclusions
Strong/Weak Arguments
Arrangements
As the name suggests, Verbal Skills judges a candidate on the usage of English through various comprehension and exercises.
Jumbled Paragraph
Sentence not contributing to Main Idea
Sentence starters
Antonym-Synonym pairs
Reading Comprehension (5 passages)
Fill in the blanks
Cloze
Correct Statement
Part of the sentence with an error
Incorrect word/phrase
The syllabus for Quant section is overly broad. Quantitative Ability (Quant) is the 3rd and final section in the ATMA exam pattern. The syllabus and pattern for Quant is vast and
covers everything in Mathematics, that you may or may not expect.
The section Quantitative skills is based on questions from different topics of Arithmetic, Algebra, Modern Math, Geometry, Mensuration, etc.
Modern Math
Data Interpretation
The crucial point to a good preparation is books. There is a surplus of books available in the market but choosing the best ones becomes tricky.
Below are a few books that are suggested by experts.
Quantitative Aptitude by R.S Aggarwal
Fast track objective Arithmetic by Rajesh Sharma
High school English Grammar and Composition by Wren and Martin
How to prepare for Logical Reasoning for CAT by Arun Sharma
Preparation Tips
The analytical skills evaluate a candidate's logical thinking abilities. To resolve these questions, candidates must not follow any formula rather they must analyse the situation
of the question and select the best answer. Constant practice of such kinds of questions will help candidates to solve such questions quickly and efficiently. A good attempt in this section will be 42 to 43 questions with 90% accuracy.
Questions in Quantitative skills will be based on high school Mathematics. Candidates ought to focus on polishing their basics from their high school books. An attempt of 41
to 42 questions with 80 to 90% accuracy will help candidates to champion the exam.
Verbal skills section tests a candidate’s knowledge regarding correct usage of grammar, vocabulary, and comprehension. Candidates can improve their skill of solving questions
from this section by reading newspapers and books.
Requirement
Remember: You cannot prepare for ATMA without ATMA Section wise Syllabus
Each section in ATMA exam is equally important. The unique weightage system is what matters for shortlisting process of colleges. If you do not score required percentile in any of
the sub-divided three sections, you will not be shortlisted by any college. So, it is important to be aware of complete syllabus and prepare accordingly. It would be beneficial if you do
not leave any topic unread.
It would be extremely difficult to proceed with the preparation of ATMA without acknowledging the syllabus first. Syllabus for ATMA is extremely wide and requires special
focus. It is advised that you download the syllabus and go through it first so that you can clear idea of weightage to get into your preferred B-Schools.
ATMA syllabus is based on the guidelines and current structure of ATMA exam. The syllabus is based on recent developments in ATMA exams and the syllabus is the
outcome of the topics which have earlier appeared in ATMA exam although the type of questions, their composition, format and number may change in each subsequent exam.
Past tendencies indicate that ATMA syllabus and pattern overall tests the candidate on Verbal Ability & Reading Comprehension; Quantitative Aptitude; Data Interpretation & Logical
Reasoning.
The syllabus covers all the major topics in three test sections which are further divided into sub-sections.
The syllabus is available online for download at various websites.
--- https://mbaroi.in/atma/atma-exam-dates/
ATMA Important Dates
Important Dates for ATMA EXAM 2023
Registration Starts: 03rd June 2023
Registration Closes: 16th July 2023
Last Date of Print Application: 23rd July 2023
Admit Card Download: 20th July 2023
Exam Date: 23rd July 2023 (2:00 PM to 5:00 PM)
Result Declaration: 28th July 2023
--- https://mbaroi.in/atma/atma-previous-years-papers/
ATMA Previous Year Papers
Direct Links to Download ATMA Previous Year Papers and ATMA Sample Papers(2018 to 2021):
ATMA Exam will be conducted on 29 May 2022 the countdown for the MBA Aspirants begins. It’s the right time to give a boost to the ATMA preparation. Solving the ATMA previous year paper and ATMA sample paper could be the masterstroke for the candidates. This strategy helps them in shaping their preparation and gives insight into their performance. You can download the ATMA papers from our site along with the answer key for improving your rank in the ATMA 2022. But before you get into solving the papers just understand the ATMA syllabus briefly.
ATMA 2015 Set A
ATMA 2015 Set B
ATMA 2015 Set c
ATMA 2015 Set D
AIIMS-Feb-15-Ans Keys - Revised 3_19 Mar 15
ATMA QUESTIONS PART-A 2017
ATMA QUESTIONS PART-B 2017
ASNSWER KEYS FOR ATMA EXAMINATION- SET A
ASNSWER KEYS FOR ATMA EXAMINATION- SET B
ATMA Sample Question Paper-1
ATMA Sample Question Paper-2
Why is it important to solve ATMA Previous Year Papers?
Aspirants can solve the last few years’ papers for a better understanding of the type of questions asked in the ATMA Exam. Solving more and more papers helps them in preparing a suitable strategy for the exam. After solving papers a candidate can do the self-analysis and find out the areas where she/he needs improvements. Visit the official ATMA Sample Test platform for more papers
ATMA Eligibility
--- https://mbaroi.in/ibsat/
About IBSAT Exam
What is IBSAT?
ICFAI Business School Aptitude Test or popularly known as IBSAT is an online exam conducted by ICFAI Foundation for Higher Education (Deemed to be University) for the
various MBA and PGDM (academic year 2025-27) courses it offers at 9 different campuses and few other MBA colleges across India.
--- https://mbaroi.in/ibsat/ibsat-exam-date/
IBSAT Important Dates
IBSAT Exam 2024 Important Dates
Following are the IBSAT Exam 2024 important dates:
IBSAT Exam 2024 Registration Fees
IBSAT 2024 Registration Fee is Rs. 1800/-
--- https://mbaroi.in/ibsat/ibsat-eligibility-criteria/
IBSAT Exam Eligibility
There are a few basic requirements to be eligible for the IBSAT 2024 exam and the additional IBSAT 2022 selection process:
Candidates must be Graduates in any discipline with a minimum of 50% of marks or an equivalent CGPA. Those in the final year of graduation can also apply.
As per the AICTE regulations, candidates must have a minimum of 15 years (10+2+3 or 10+2+4) of education including graduation.
The candidate's medium of education must be English, else should submit the IELTS/NELT/TOEFL exam on or before May 31, 2025.
--- https://mbaroi.in/ibsat/ibsat-syllabus/
IBSAT Syllabus
Verbal Ability Section
Reading Comprehension Section
Quantitative Ability Section
Data Interpretation & Data Adequacy section
Total Number of questions: 50 MCQs
Verbal Ability is maximum scoring section in IBSAT with 50 questions. Major topics on which questions are asked in this section, are:
Synonyms/Antonyms
Word Relation
Error Spotting
Phrase Replacement/one-word substitute
Jumbled Sentences
The complexity level for overall verbal ability section is moderate.
Total Number of questions: 30 MCQs
The Reading Comprehension is a separate section in IBSAT exam with 30 questions.
RC Section is not clubbed with Verbal Ability section.
There are typically 3 RC passages followed by 8 questions each, whereas one RC passage has 6 questions.
The RC passages in IBSAT is usually of 500 to 600 words.
Most questions are related to the RC passages and answers to them can be easily found in the RC passage itself.
Some of the questions are indirect and you must check the inference drawn from the passage.
Quantitative Ability section is a mix of all the topics in Mathematics. Total questions in this section are 30. All the questions are of Moderate complexity level.
Simplification & Algebra
Speed, Time, and Distance
Profit, loss & Discount
Permutation & Probability
Work and Time
Percentage
Geometry and Mensuration
Simple interest & partnership
Time and Work
Ratio
The Quantitative Ability section in IBSAT is a good combination of problems including arithmetic, geometry, and analytical geometry. The questions are outlined on speed, distance
and time, ratio proportion, work problems, heights, progressions, probability, percentages, etc.
Out of 30 questions in this section, 15 are based on Data sufficiency and the rest 15 on Data Interpretation.
Data Interpretation (Pie chart)
Data Interpretation (Line and Table)
Data Interpretation (Line, bar, graph)
IBSAT is Online Computer Based Test. Candidates should be able to operate a computer and have basic level computer knowledge.
Candidate can appear in only one session of IBSAT.
IBSAT Syllabus is high scoring given its moderate difficulty level.
There is no Negative Marking in IBSAT exam.
Each Correct answer carries +1 Mark. Total maximum marks are 140.
IBSAT is 2 Hours paper.
All questions in IBSAT are of MCQ type.
The best way to cover IBSAT syllabus is to attempt previous years question paper and give mock tests. Some institute gives IBSAT preparation classes, it is advisable to join that so you
can get a clear idea of how to go about the syllabus.
Preparation for any exam is incomplete without acknowledging the syllabus first. It would be difficult to proceed without a clear idea of the topics that may or may not come in the exam.
IBSAT might not be broad as CAT but is still wide enough.
If you go through the IBSAT exam syllabus, it will help you to decide.
How to begin?
IBSAT exam syllabus is based on the specified standards and the current thought over structure of IBSAT exam.
IBSAT Exam Syllabus knows no boundaries. It is advisable to keep your preparation wide enough.
IBSAT 2024 exam syllabus is based on recent developments in IBSAT exams. Although not much has changed and you may find similarities with previous years questions.
IBSAT exam Syllabus covers all the major topics on four test sections.
The syllabus is available online to download.
--- https://mbaroi.in/iift/
About IIFT Exam
IIFT Cut Offs 2024
What is IIFT: Indian Institute of Foreign Trade
The Indian Institute of Foreign Trade (IIFT) was established in 1963 by Ministry of Commerce and Industry. This is an autonomous training institute for learning global business. It offers courses like Global BBA, Global Executive MBA, Global MBA, and Global DBA.
IIFT conducts an entrance examination called IIFT Exam in India for admissions into its Post Graduate Management Program. IIFT is a national level exam entrance test in which about 60,000 candidates appear every year and is considered tougher than CAT.
IIFT has established collaborations internationally for students, faculty and exchange programs for them. It is one among the highly ranked institutes of India.
National Testing Agency (NTA), an autonomous institute formed by The Ministry of Education is the conducting body for this exam. IIFT was recognized as a “Deemed to be University” in 2002. Also, it was documented a Grade ‘A’ Institution in 2005 and 2015 by The National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC).IIFT’s flagship, MBA, focuses on International Business and its campuses are located in Delhi, Kolkata and Kakinada.
IIFT Exam
IIFT holds a glorious reputation in professionalizing India’s international trade management. IIFT also allows admissions of foreign/NRI/PIO candidates on the basis of GMAT score. The programs offered by the Institute are diverse and prepares students for International Business. The programs are:
Two-year MBA - International Business by Delhi and  Kolkata campuses
Three-year Part Time MBA - International Business by New Delhi and Kolkata
Masters in International Business, New Delhi
Program in Export Management, New Delhi
IIFT exams are conducted during the month of December for entrance into the flagship Management programs of IIFT. Students from across India and abroad content for seats in MBA- International Business course (A popular MBA program of IIFT). The MBA- IB can be studied at Delhi, Kolkata and Kakinada Campus of IIFT. In 2021 the exam took place on January 24, and for 2022 exam is expected to schedule in Second Week of December 05, 2021
Exam Structure
Since 2019, IIFT exams are conducted online.
Duration of exam is two hours and is held in a single session.
Exam has 110 questions bifurcated in 4 sections
The exam carries 300 marks and every correct answer gets you 1.5 marks in General Awareness section, 3 marks in QR, RC & VR, and DI& LR sections.
Wrong answer attracts one-third negative mark
The Verbal Ability and Reading Comprehension questions are different; similarly, DI and LR sections are different too. Both the sections  need to be passed separately.
The exam is considered tougher than CAT.
The admit cards are available at least a fortnight before the exam.
--- https://mbaroi.in/iift/iift-exam-date/
IIFT Important Dates
Important Dates for IIFT 2023
The registration process for IIFT 2023 has been started and will remain open till November 14, 2022. Anyone who wants to participate is IIFT has to register for this exam. National Testing Agency published the IIFT 2022 exam date on its website. The results will be out on Second week of January 2023, online.
--- https://mbaroi.in/iift/iift-registration/
IIFT Exam Registration
IIFT Registration
IIFT Application Form 2023
With IIFT 2023 Application form, you can apply for both IIFT 2023 exam and IIFT Business School.
Application form was released on 30th September 2022 and the last date of submission was on 14th November 2022. Candidates need not apply for IIFT Delhi, IIFT Kolkata or IIFT Kakinada separately.
Application submission was available only in online mode. No offline submission was allowed.
The option to change the centre could be availed by paying an extra fee.
Mode of Payment for application fee could be done through Credit/Debit/Net Banking/UPI/PayTM
Last date for payment of application fee is 14th November 2022, 11:50 PM.
Visit the official website and login with your credentials.
Select “Correction in Application Form” tab
Check on the “I agree” tab and proceed
Look for the error and make the corrections
Now click on “Submit” tab and then click the submit button
--- https://mbaroi.in/iift/iift-eligibility-criteria/
IIFT Exam Eligibility
IIFT Eligibility Criteria
A candidate must have a recognized Bachelor's degree of 3 years' duration with minimum 50% marks. Candidates from SC, ST and PWD category must have a minimum of 45%.
Final year students can also apply, but they need to tender proof of requisite qualification later.
No age limit is set for examinees
IIFT Exam Pattern
IIFT has a very different marking scheme compared to other entrance exams. The total number of questions varies in IIFT exam from year to year.  The sections are divided into sub-sections. Understanding the pattern of exam will help candidates plan a winning strategy and perform better in exam.
Conducting Body - National Testing Agency (NTA)
Exam Mode - Computer based Online Exam
Exam Duration - 120 minutes
Question Type - MCQ
Marks - 3 marks for right answers in Section 1, 2 and 3 and 1.5 marks for section 4
Total Marks - 300
Negative Marking -1/3 Marks for wrong answers
Number of Questions - Variable
Sectional Time Limit - None
Go through the table and allocate your time during exam as per the weightage of each question. Although IIFT has no specified syllabus but the sections of the exam are divided into:  English Usage/Verbal Ability, Reading Comprehension, Quantitative Aptitude, Data Interpretation, Logical Reasoning and General Knowledge.
Examinee needs to clear each section of the exam to pass the exam. Give equal efforts to all the 4 sections.
Divide your time efficiently between each question as there is differential marking scheme.
Have a thorough concept familiarity, practice on test taking strategies, develop application orientation.
Attempt at least 11-5 questions from Quantitative Aptitude, 12 -16 in Data Interpretation and Logical Reasoning. In general awareness section attempt a 	minimum of 4-8 questions. For comprehension and verbal ability answer 23 to 28 questions.
Sharpen your reading skills and subjects on English language.
GK sections have very low cut-offs, so you can answer lesser number of questions from this section.
--- https://mbaroi.in/iift/iift-syllabus/
IIFT Exam Syllabus
IIFT Syllabus
Neither IIFT nor NTA has issued any syllabus for IIFT exam. The syllabus is derived from the past question paper trends. Section wise syllabus for IIFT entrance exam includes
Contextual usage
Punctuation
Comprehension of passage
Fill In the Blanks
Sentence correction
Errors in word choice
Current Affairs
Current Events
Countries
Constitution
Awards & Honors
Persons
Famous Personalities
Animals
Buildings, Languages
Inventions& Discoveries
Currencies
Indian & World History
Indian & World Geography
Democratic policy
Symbol Based problems
Assumption-Premise-Conclusion
Assertion and
Statements and conclusions
Identifying valid inferences
Statements and assumptions
Identifying Probably true
Coding and decoding
Family tree
Matrix arrangements
Ratios and Proportion
Profit & Loss
Number system
Harmonic mean
Time-Speed-Distance
Geometric Progression
Averages
Number Base System
Arithmetic mean
Arithmetic progression
Geometric mean
Simple Interest & Compound Interest
Maxima & Minima Progression
Permutations & Combinations
Median, Mode
Installment Payments
Vectors
--- https://mbaroi.in/iift/iift-admit-card/
IIFT Admit Card
IIFT 2023 entrance exam can be registered through the online application form which is available on the official website. (https://iift.nta.nic.in/) Registrations are open from 30th September 2022 t0 14th November 2022.
The basic information of candidates are collected through form, so submit details carefully as it cannot be amended later.
Candidates receive Registration number and Password on the email id after successful submission of the form. These credentials can be used to access application form later.
Once the payment has been received, you will receive the payment confirmation on the registered email address.
The IIFT 2023 Admit Cards will be published for download on the official website on first week of December, 2022. To download the admit card, the steps are:
Login into the IIFT portal (https://iift.nta.nic.in/)
Login using Application Number and Password or Application Number and Date of Birth.
Select, IIFT 2023 Admit Card button.
The Admit Card contains personal details of applicant, the date and time of exam, the venue and the instructions
The printouts of the online admit card must be carried by the examinee at the time of exam along with an ID proof.
IIFT Results
IIFT results 2023 will be announced on Second Week of January 2023. The results will be available to download at NTA website on Final week of Decemeber 2022. Candidates need login ID and date of birth to check their website. The IIFT scorecard has name, roll number, date of birth, section-wise marks, total marks, sectional cut off and overall percentile of the examinee.
Visit https://ntaresults.nic.in/resultservices/IIFT-auth-21
Click on ‘IIFT 2023 NTA scorecard’ tab.
Input application number and password/date of birth
Download the scorecard
--- https://mbaroi.in/iift/iift-cut-offs/
IIFT Cut Offs
On the basis of written test, cutoffs will be declared and a merit list for the second round will be in print online. The list of selected candidates will appear on the official website of IIFT.  The expected IIFT 2021 cut offs may lie between 115-120 marks out of total 300 but the short listing depends upon sectional cut offs too. A candidate must clear the sectional cut offs also, to be qualified for next rounds.
Including all IIFT campuses, the seats available for MBA- IB are 420.  Delhi campus has the highest cut offs and it keeps on varying year after year. It is based on the difficulty level of the exam.
Visit IIFT website.
Click on ‘Important Links’ at left side of homepage.
Click on cut-off marks
Enter your login credentials on the new page
Cut-off marks will appear on the new page of the website
Save and take a print
--- https://mbaroi.in/group-discussion/
About GD
Why is GD conducted
Process of GD
Do's and Don'ts
Group Discussion(GD) Success Tips
GD: INTRODUCTION
A saying true to every word. There is a difference between discussion and argument, and since we are literate, we should always favour discussion.
You must be wondering, why are you talking about argument and discussion suddenly? It is not sudden; it is discussion season.
As the exam season comes to its final leap, the Group Discussion leads in, and it is time we begin our final preparations for round two by understanding the Group Discussion (GD) process. In this piece, we shall delve into What is Group Discussion (GD)?, it's process, different formats of the GD, the evaluation criteria, and the background preparation essential to give us a solid groundwork in whichever GD we participate in.
It plays an important role in the selection process for MBA since the last few years, it has been replaced by WAT (Writing Ability Test) at most IIMs. On the other hand, IIM-K still conducts the GD along with the WAT on the same topic. In most reputed B-schools other than the IIMs, Group Discussion continues to be a part of the evaluation process. It must be observed that it tests many abilities and qualities that used to be tested in the WAT, and therefore a solid preparation of this round will ultimately help the candidate in acing his/her responses to the WAT topics.
Get Trending GD Topics Every Week
What is Group Discussion (GD)?
Group Discussion(GD) normally comprises 10 to 15 participants at a time. The Group Discussion process commences by the declaration of the topic to the group, which is followed by giving preparation time of 3 to 5 minutes to everyone. Sometimes, more than 5 minutes’ preparation time may be given only in the case that the topic is based on a case-study and requires longer statements.
As the preparation time comes to an end, the selection panel indicates the group to start off the discussion, and from then on plays the role of a silent observer, which means that they will not moderate or mediate the discussion. The group members have the liberty to discuss the topic as they view appropriate without any kind of suggestion from the panel. The panel does not specify the number of speakers and anybody can start or end the discussion. Even the time limit can be flouted.
The average duration of most Group Discussions is about 15 minutes (minus the preparation time). In some special cases (such as IIFT), the discussion may continue for more than 30 to 45 minutes.
Please Note: The longer the discussion gets on, the extra seriously the panel looks at the quality of the content of the candidate.
The panel typically is of 3 or 4 panellists, who will monitor numerous facets of the participants’ content and delivery. Note that the panellists have the liberty to end the Group Discussion if they want to or can extend it for as much as they feel like. It is not the participant’s job to keep time or worry about the Group Discussion ending in 15 minutes. It can end in either of the two ways:
First, the panel may abruptly end the round
Second, they may ask a participant (or more than one participant) to summarise the GD.
If a participant is asked to summarise the Group Discussion, they need to be aware of what summary means. Summary cannot be outside the discussion and they will have to stick to the points discussed. It is also common that the quietest participant is given a chance to summarize so that he/she may present their views as well. The summarization, however, must be impartial.
Why is GD conducted?
Group Discussion is important and every MBA pursuing student knows the value of it. Candidate’s in the final year are well informed about it. It plays a massive role in the interviewing process. To understand the place of Group Discussion, you need to understand the point of view of an interviewer or a panellist. How it is important for a candidate and how to go about preparing for it. Don't forget to read about some of the most asked MBA interview questions and why they are famous for all interviewers.
This round is conducted to test the ability of a candidate’s interactive skills. A group discussion is a situation where you interact with people you have ideally never interacted before; it is more like swimming in a soup. You will be judged on how you get along with them and how well you are able to put your point across without being demeaning or mean or rude. It also checks whether you can be a part of a team or not or are you a people's person?
It is best if you practice for this round while preparing for the entrance exam as it gives you ample time to be aware of yourself with current affairs and different prominent topics. Also work on your soft skills, eye contact and body language.
The process of GD Round follows the below-mentioned steps -
Step 1:-  The very first stage of any GD is the announcement of the topic. The topic will be declared by the panelist.
Step 2:- It's a preparation time where all the candidates will be given a time of 2 to 5 minutes for getting their content ready
Step 3:- Now the discussion is started by one candidate and it can be anyone among the all participants. After that, each participant gets a chance to speak and present their views in front of the group.
Step 4: - Participants kept on speaking until the panelist ask them to summarize the whole discussion. Sometimes panelists are just asked to summarize the topic and anyone among all participants can summarize the discussion. But sometimes they ask the specific candidate to summarize mostly the quiet person in the discussion so everyone can get an equal chance.  If they choose you then you make sure that you have heard all the participants properly and deliver all the relevant points that summerize the topic.
Step 5:- this is the final step in this panlist declare the scores of discussion for each candidates based on thier perfromance.
Types of Group Discussion (GD)
The matter for these types of Group discussion is based on current affairs or static matters. Students are advised to be thorough with these and read newspapers daily to be up to date. Also, these discussions are not time bound.
In this student are given situations especially out of a business and will be judged on how they reach a solution to the problem. They will be required to analyse the situation and give their views.
This kind of discussion gives no outline of the topic, which means no one knows which direction to take. The participants must use innovative strategies and ideas to steer the discussion. The topic could be one word or a sentence, but no one usually knows what to say on that or what the panel might like.
Contrary to what is understood, Group Discussions do not differ on difficulty level. A good weightage is based on it and the panel makes sure only the one deserving get through
Evaluation Criteria: GD
The evaluation of participants is based on two kinds:
Individual Qualities
Group Skills
Your content matters. Period. What you must present during the ongoing discussion is being noted and reveals your comprehension skills. It is not necessary to talk a lot, sometimes quality matters rather than quantity. Even if you speak for like 2 minutes, make sure you present your ideas clearly and confidently. The panel does not want unnecessary jabber instead they want you to present a solid groundwork. Steer clear form irrelevant words.
Every discussion is based on facts, so get your facts straight. The panel would like you dive into the ‘how’ and ‘why’ of the question. Your analytical skills are tested on a higher level and you are put to harshest of tests.
A topic requires you to reason with. The panel is interested in understanding how efficiently you reveal your reasoning skills. Not just with your argument but also how you take someone else’s argument and turn it into yours. It is more like directing a conversation.
Your argument should be organized. No amount of details or facts would matter if you are not able to present them in an organized manner. Think for a minute before you open your mouth.
Well since it is a Group Discussion, communication skills matter. How well do you communicate? Ask yourself this question. Are you able to speak in a simple term which others can understand? Or are you self-proclaimed Shashi Tharoor? Our advice sticks to the former.
Remember how back in school Sky used to be purple? It is like that; you added your own colour to the sky now it is time to colour the argument differently. Think way outside the box. If everyone is thinking that way, think inside the box.
Sometimes, when 10 people are involved in a discussion, it is easier to drift away. Do not! More than presenting your argument, it would be best if you listen to others and then and there form your opinion. The panel is quite nosy, they will not bother you but be rest assured they are looking at you. When you're lost in your own thoughts, your facial expression changes, and they can catch it. Maintain eye contact with everyone, listen to everyone, take their argument, and compare them with yours.
It is quite normal in Group Discussion that someone will be made a leader, not exactly that they are going to get extra points for that but it’s just so they can begin the discussion and steer it in the right direction. Try to grab that chance. It showcases your leadership skills and how well you will be in a practical world.
Body language is one of the most important factors because in tense situations our body does not agree with us. It is natural to be nervous or anxious before the discussion, remain calm and composed or at least pretend to. Walk in the room straight and confident. Sit straight.  Maintain eye contact, speak clearly. Use your hands wisely. Sometimes all these things seem difficult but give positive affirmations to yourself. Also, do not move unnecessarily, or play with your pen or tap your fingers or legs and most important do not run your fingers through your hair. All these show that you are not interested in the discussion.
Mutual respect is everything. Sure, your point might be better than the other or you think you are more knowledgeable but still does not give you the liberty to insult them in an ongoing discussion. Give everyone a chance to speak, listen to them, do not cut them off, do not be dominating and do not get personal. IIMs want sensitive candidates, people working as bouncers.
Now that you know how you will be assessed, make sure to focus on specific areas of improvement during your practice GDs. Identify your shortcomings and work on that. Hire a trainer if you can or join an institute that will help you prepare.
GD: Do's and Don'ts
A person's sense of dressing speaks a lot. Do not go on a crop top and jeans and T-shirt trail when going for a Group Discussion. Dress in smart formals for Group Discussion. Also make sure that you are comfortable. Dressing up nicely boosts your confidence level and increases your chance of making a good impression.
Try to open the GD. Do not be disheartened if you cannot as someone else got the chance, but if you do, it is a big plus point. But it will only be favourable if you have understood the topic clearly. Even if you do not speak first, make sure to frame your argument well for your turn.
Keep calm and relax. It is just a GD not a matter of life and death. Maintain eye contact with everyone, they are just as nervous as you are.
Give others a chance to speak. Do not cut them off. It does not give a good impression. Wait for your turn to present your arguments.
Be polite. Use simple language to convey your thoughts. Do not be dominating. If you do not agree with someone’s argument, put your point forward in a calm and respectful manner.
Sometimes, it is easy to get carried away and we just end up speaking nonsense. Try to refrain from that. Do not keep going just so that you can get extra time, hence, extra highlight. It would not work if your argument is not strong enough anyway. Stick to the point and once you are done presenting it, kindly give others a chance to speak.
In most of the IIMs and colleges, Group Discussion carries substantiate weightage. Every college has different weightage for GD so it is a little difficult to tell exactly how much scores you can get in GD. But it can range from 10% to 20% and if it is a part of PI and WAT, it carries a joint 50% weightage.
Trending Group Discussion(GD) Topics For 2024
Creativity or Knowledge
Implemention of CAA
Gender Equality
Paytm Rise and Fall
China and Taiwan Conflict
What If Aliens Land on Earth?
Metaverse – A Fictional Universe
Peer Pressure
Books Vs Movies
Technology Addiction
Agneepath Scheme
Work From Home vs Work from Office
Russia and Ukraine War -Why war is happening and its impact?
Impact of Technology on Jobs
Impact of Social Media on Youth
Increasing Fuel Price and Electric Vehicles
Why did PM Modi Repeal Farm Laws
High Fuel Prices in India: What are the causes & Impact on Indian Economy
IT Industry in India – Will it Create more Jobs in Future?
Is Social Distancing The New World Order?
Is ‘Startup India’ Boosting Entrepreneurship?
Should Indian Economy be Privatized? Pros & Cons
Indian Illiteracy and employability
Question: What is Group discussion?
Answer: It is an assessment tool used by institutes and companies to identify the best candidate among all the applicants. Usually, 10-15 candidates participate in the discussion and the topic for discussion is given by panelists.
Question: What are the types of GD?
Answer: GD can be divided into 3 categories: - 1. Topical, 2. Case Study Based,  3. Abstract.
Question: What are the evaluation criteria for Group Discussion?
Answer: Panelists look for the various quality in a participant such as - communication, confidence, presentation skills, knowledge, leadership, team spirit, active listening, and attention to detail.
Question: How can I introduce myself in GD?
Answer:Start with your name followed by the topic of the discussion. Then give a brief introduction about the topic and after that present your views. Try to complete this in a time frame of 1 to 2 minutes.
Question: How to score more in Group Discusion?
Answer:  In order to score more in GD, the candidate needs to present their ideas in the best way, They are advised to start the discussion and lead the whole process from the front. It'll show the panelist your ability to lead and also indicate your team-building ability.
--- https://mbaroi.in/group-discussions/types-of-gd/
Types of Group Discussion
Types of GD based on the Topics Assigned
The Team-Based Group Discussions are an element of the admissions process. The discussing team will have a prompt and a purpose to work together and achieve a tangible result. This blog discusses different categories of GD based on the assigned GD topics.
Different types of topics distributed to participants for GD are Factual Topics, Abstract Topics, Argumentative Topics, Opinion based Topics, Current Affairs, and Case studies
It is necessary to understand the aspiration of the panelists when they have assigned a topic to the group. The assigned topic gives sufficient cues about how the discussion should be conducted. Here are the types of GDs based on how they should be conducted, depending upon the topics assigned. Understanding this will help you drive your GD in the right direction. In reference to the topic asked, GD can be of the following types:
GD task may be allocated to you to:
Create a new situation – form a coalition, start an initiative, etc.
Discover cooperative arrangements in the groups
Discuss or evaluate an issue, for a better understanding
Create a plan
Discuss policies and policy changes
Study laws, regulations and some developments, etc.
Arrive at an action
Solve a problem
Resolve a conflict
Plan some work or task
Get Latest GD Topic Every Week
Are You Gearing Up For Your WAT-GD-PI Rounds?
WAT-GD-PI is an important phase that decides the conversion of your MBA call. Preparation of GD rounds requires a proper plan and strategy. So, understand the offer of admission and know that your performance in GD needs to have a structured groundwork.
Group Discussions are a methodology used by management institutes to gauge certain personality traits and skills required in a candidate. For a Group Discussion, the group of candidates may range from 5 to 15 members. Candidates are given a topic or a situation, given a few minutes to ponder over the topic, and then asked to discuss it with each other for 10 to 20 minutes.
For an effective GD, make good statements. Keep practicing Mock GDs with peers under supervision. Be polite and composed throughout the discussion. Be assertive and maintain decorum. Use informative words, use hand gestures, and initiate the discussion. Try to conclude the discussion too as it is a token of leadership talent.
MBA Placements
IIM Placements 2024
Best MBA Colleges Placement Wise
--- https://mbaroi.in/group-discussions/gd-phases-and-procedures/
GD Phases and Procedures
Phases of Group Discussion
There is a prevalent use and practical value in using group discussion as an instrument for selecting and analyzing MBA candidates. Although there is wide use of GD as a selection tool but the process is not always very clearly understood. When the MBA selection process is laid down in GD form, it is viewed as a catalyst response activity, as a form of goal-seeking behaviour, and measuring how the participants mediate the life spaces. This article resolves to understand the Procedure and the Phases in GD Process in MBA selections
GD involves:
Panelists: Panelists are a group of 4 to 5 people who judge the Group Discussion based on evaluation parameters. Parameters may be different in different MBA Colleges but the general procedure remains the same.
Participants: Participants may range from 7 to 12 members put together in a group, which is decided based upon the available strength of candidates for the test.
Duration: Average allotted duration for Group Discussion is 15 to 20 minutes. It may vary with the number of candidates present for the test. Panelists can also decide to extend or end the discussion time. E.g. in IIFT selection, a GD can prolong up to 45 minutes.
Steps in GD Procedure
Topics Declaration: Any technical, factual, case study, or abstract topic is announced for discussion.
Preparation Time allowance: 3 minutes of preparation time is allowed to participants, which can also be extended in certain cases.
Lead Initiates the Discussion: which is trailed by others- Any participant can take the lead to start the discussion. Other participants can keep adding their viewpoints. Every participant gets their chance to communicate their views on the topic one after the other.
Summarising the Discussion: GD ends when the panelists ask to stop the discussion. They may ask one participant to summarize the GD. When summarising, cover all the discussed points that were part of the discussion and conclude the discussion effectively. Mostly a lesser participating member is asked to summarize, but others can speak.
Evaluation of each Participant’s Presentation: Based on the parameters, final scores are calculated and scores are announced.
Phases in Group Discussion
Group Discussions can be precisely divided into 3 phases. For a successful GD, initiation, summarization, and good content is very important. During the GD, the B-School Panelists look forward to these three stages for a proper progression of the discussion.
Initiation: The one who grabs the initiating opportunity attains two birds with one stone. He gets the chance to speak first and at the same time grabs the attention of Panelists and fellow participants. This builds a favourable first impression if good content is presented with confidence. Try not to stammer or present wrong facts at this time.  A good introduction to the topic gives the discussion the right perspective for further talks. If you have a good insight into the topic, initiate the GD.At this stage, if you have fear of speaking up, please remember that communication is more important than the feeling of fear. Try to think positively and get ideas using the POPBEANS technique.
Initiation: The one who grabs the initiating opportunity attains two birds with one stone. He gets the chance to speak first and at the same time grabs the attention of Panelists and fellow participants. This builds a favourable first impression if good content is presented with confidence. Try not to stammer or present wrong facts at this time.
A good introduction to the topic gives the discussion the right perspective for further talks. If you have a good insight into the topic, initiate the GD.
At this stage, if you have fear of speaking up, please remember that communication is more important than the feeling of fear. Try to think positively and get ideas using the POPBEANS technique.
Body Of Content: It is sometimes difficult to explain your points in an intelligible manner, so create a Silence Zone while you speak. To overcome the distracting situations:
Use the PREC technique (Point, Rationale, Example, and Conclusion). This helps you to present your thoughts coherently.Use confident body language. Maintain a confident, upright posture, eye contact, and a polite tone.Start a GD in a way that you makes a remarkable first impression. Use quotes, definitions, questions, shocking statements, statistics, short stories, and general statements.
During this stage, a power struggle is inevitable. Members may contest based on facts and figures. Agreements and oppositions go hand in hand. Some members emerge dominant and differences of opinions are bound to arise. So, stay calm but active and show your problem-solving skills. After the power struggle, group members get calmer. At this stage give the GD a correct direction towards resolution. Next is the performance stage where competencies, attitude, and aptitude are observed and evaluated. Decisions naturally become apparent from group collaborations happening at this stage and the members start to move towards unanimity if there is a possibility.
Use the PREC technique (Point, Rationale, Example, and Conclusion). This helps you to present your thoughts coherently.
Use confident body language. Maintain a confident, upright posture, eye contact, and a polite tone.
Start a GD in a way that you makes a remarkable first impression. Use quotes, definitions, questions, shocking statements, statistics, short stories, and general statements.
Conclusion: Not every GD needs to conclude. Even when the GD is not concluded, the members of the group get evaluated always. The conclusion arrives when the entire group arrives at one proclamation i.e. in favour or against a topic. If in case the conclusion has not been reached, summarise the discussion in a nutshell based on what was discussed in GD. When summarising, remember:
Not to take up a new point.Do not share only your perspective.Summarise all the viewpoints of the topic.Keep it brief and crisp.Include all important points discussed.Do not speak more without listening to what others have to say
Not to take up a new point.
Do not share only your perspective.
Summarise all the viewpoints of the topic.
Keep it brief and crisp.
Include all important points discussed.
Do not speak more without listening to what others have to say
Use statements like – “We have just had a great group discussion and, as a group, we have weighed different aspects of this topic. Some of us were in favour and some were of the other viewpoint ……..”
The above methods help to bring out your A-game and make an impact to deliver a successful GD.
--- https://mbaroi.in/group-discussions/evaluation-criteria/
Group Discussion Evaluation Criteria
Many candidates, while preparing for Group Discussions often believe that they must hold forth the communication more or wear a leader hat during the discussions. This indeed is not the case when it comes to MBA team-based discussions for selections. But this may not be much amiable if that is not your authentic behavior. Remember, that Group discussion panelists also look for some diversity and appropriate-level contributions at different levels. Bring out your absolute self to the table gracefully. You will be able to deliver meaningful input to the group tasks in a way that makes you and everyone around comfortable. But at the same time, be conscious of the key goals of the group tasks assigned to you.
The evaluating parameters are different in different B-Schools, but there is a universal framework that does not change much. For actual criteria used in GDs to top B-Schools, panelists look for brilliance, but prominently they look for, how each candidate has performed across the key dimensions. The evaluation of participants is based on two kinds:
Clarity, Content, and Confidence
Your content matters. What you must present during the ongoing discussion is being noted and reveals your comprehension skills. It is not necessary to talk a lot, sometimes quality matters more than quantity. Even if you speak for like 2 minutes, make sure you present your ideas clearly and confidently. The panel does not want unnecessary jabber instead they want you to present a solid groundwork. Steer clear from irrelevant words.
Connect comfortably with other members and participate confidently. As long as you plan and prepare your thoughts with logic and clarity, and there is poise and presence in your communication, you will be noticed and rewarded.
Logic of Ideas / Comments
Analytical Skills
Reasoning Skills
Organisation Skills
Presence & Communication
In a Group Discussion, communication skills matter. How well do you communicate? Ask yourself this question. Are you able to speak in a simple term that others can understand? Or are you self-proclaimed Shashi Tharoor? Our advice sticks to the former.
Fluency, articulation, and modulations in your speech add to the effectiveness of speech and make your presence conspicuous.
Energy, posture, and eye contact are also important elements of the evaluation.  Energetic body language indicates your capacity for work, which stands as a definite advantage over the others. But try not to be impulsive. Have an upright and appropriate body posture, projecting you as a well-composed and poised candidate. And Eye Contact takes care of the way of acknowledging others. Look at the key speakers 80% of the time and the remaining 20% at other participants.
Creativity
Listening Skill
Leadership and Collaboration
Leadership traits reflect when the candidate takes the initiative in advancing the discussion and uses compelling comments and probes. Also if at any point in the discussion, one introduces a new perspective to the topic, it gives some constructive direction to the discussion. If you are a good leader with collaborating attributes, you would present a viewpoint that is challenging the status quo, tactfully without hurting. You will be able to blend multiple ideas and viewpoints in the room to bring about the most agreeable situation.
Even with divergent opinions, communicate and collaborate with others efficiently. When you respond to feedback from others in a positive manner and address others skillfully, it displays a good way of collaboration. Strike a balance between individual excellence and group performance; this is indicative of an effective group dynamics. Establish positive relationships with participants, and take the conversation through a logical progression. Graduate from one discussion thread to another logically, and do not let random hip-hopping happen.
Body Language
Group Behaviour
Persuasion
Generally, a persuasive speaker leads the discussion more so on controversial topics. However, keep in mind these 3 approaches to persuasion:
Ethos: Persuade only on the basis of trust and credibility, established by you in previous participation. If you have added value in the formative stages of discussion, you will be heard and respected.
Sentiment: Manage according to the emotions of other group members. Understand when to counter and when to support the viewpoints and also know the right entry and right exit points when in a discussion.
Logos: Your entire logical proposition will be received well if you have shown a logical quotient better than others.
Poor “teamwork” is the worst conduct shown during a GD. This may require participants to continue dominating the conversation; intrude on others; restate opinions made by others, this may not allow the conversation to move forward. People may start showing irritation, annoyance, or a bad attitude.
The panelists recognize that great leaders may differ from one another in many ways. But there are some things in common among most of them. The listening skills and ability to work well with others are unexceptional, even when one is an introvert or an extrovert. Keeping positive is one simple step in succeeding in a group interview and countering the uncertainties of the experience.
Remember, not to be dominant, talk irrelevantly, and exaggerate facts. Be a good listener, keep your speech clear to come out effective in the GD.
--- https://mbaroi.in/group-discussions/dos-and-donts-in-gd/
Do's and Don'ts in GD
Group Discussion:Do’s & Dont’s
Securing a seat in the top B-School has never been such intense. The applicants today are so strong and polished that admissions committees have to lay down more layers of tests to make crucial admit decisions. A group discussion demonstrates how well you work along with others which eventually becomes an important component of the business school experience.
Group discussions may be conducted in a different manner in different MBA Schools, yet the objective is to figure out how applicants work together and solve real-world problem scenarios.  During GDs, follow certain basic tips by the experts to perform well. Therefore, if you’ve been called for a group interview, here are a few things to remember.
Dress Formally
A person's sense of dressing speaks a lot. Do not go in a crop top and jeans and T-shirt trail when going for a Group Discussion. Dress in smart formals for Group Discussion. Also, make sure that you are comfortable. Dressing up nicely boosts your confidence level and increases your chance of making a good impression.
Speak First
Try to open the GD. Do not be disheartened if you cannot as someone else gets the chance, but if you do, it is a big plus point. But it will only be favorable if you have understood the topic clearly. Even if you do not speak first, make sure to frame your argument well for your turn. Focus and demonstrate your knowledge, but be on point and make it fruitful information for everybody around.
Eye Contact
Keep calm and relaxed. It is just a GD not a matter of life and death. Maintain eye contact with everyone, they are just as nervous as you are.
Let others speak
Give others a chance to speak. Do not cut them off. It does not give a good impression. Wait for your turn to present your arguments. Listen carefully when others in your group speak and make use of any opportunities to either turn to or refer to other members’ points.
Be Assertive
Propose to recap when the conversation reached the endpoint and the group gets to benefit from the quick recap
Be Sensible
Sometimes, it is easy to get carried away and we just end up speaking nonsense. Try to refrain from that. Do not keep going just so that you can get extra time, hence, extra highlight. It would not work if your argument is not strong enough anyway. Stick to the point and once you are done presenting it, kindly give others a chance to speak. Put your group’s goal forward instead of trying to get an airtime
GD Weightage
In most of the IIMs and colleges, Group Discussion carries substantiate weightage. Every college has a different weightage for GD so it is a little difficult to tell exactly how much score you can get in GD. But it can range from 10% to 20% and if it is a part of Personal Interview (PI) and Written Ability Test (WAT), it carries a joint 50% weightage.
To emerge a winner in the Group Interview, speak after you get a grasp on the topic. The trick is to follow the rules, express logical views, to be clear and assertive but not aggressive. Enter the discussion to make your point.  Do not drop easily, make multiple entries.
Each member may have their own personal views and it is important to know both sides of the argument. If the discussion is moving forward in a direction, you can take a totally opposite view, change the direction of the conversation but remember the rules and do not make others uncomfortable. You may become the center of the discussion.  If you have some really clear thoughts about the topic, you can present them and defend your viewpoints. E.g. Topic-Liberalization: Many people will defend it since much has been written about it in newspapers and magazines. If you think otherwise, bring in an opposing viewpoint carefully without offending or negating others. There is no reason why you will not be shortlisted.
--- https://mbaroi.in/group-discussions/gd-tips-and-strategies/
Group Discussion - Tips & Strategies
While you are getting ready for your GD round, be enriched with the top basic tips and be well versed with the best strategies to ace the assessment. 	Here is a small tutorial on the tips and strategies to crack your GD round.
Key Strategies to Ace a GD
The MBA selection board’s motive is to assess the participants’ constructive and argumentative skills when they conduct the Group Discussion. They also test their social fit factor, confidence, communication skills and precision of thought process, etc. Based on this, here are 5 fundamental strategies to recognize that get you to the top of a GD.
PrepareCandidates need to prepare and read thoroughly to remain updated on the trending GD topics, current affairs, latest trends, and information spanning your world. Reading a lot, following the stories of high achievers and the trending reads gives you the stimulus to quote these shining examples as references and present your viewpoints congruously. If during the GD, the selectors get to learn some facts from you, it sits well with them in their minds about you. Make sure that the facts are in conformity with the topic.
Candidates need to prepare and read thoroughly to remain updated on the trending GD topics, current affairs, latest trends, and information spanning your world. Reading a lot, following the stories of high achievers and the trending reads gives you the stimulus to quote these shining examples as references and present your viewpoints congruously. If during the GD, the selectors get to learn some facts from you, it sits well with them in their minds about you. Make sure that the facts are in conformity with the topic.
Sentence ConstructionGD requires a lot of spontaneity while speaking during the assessment. The thoughts need to be devised nicely into a strong statement, to draw the attention of the group towards you. If you stammer or make pauses, you will be interrupted by others on an immediate basis. This requires long practice to ace it. Take the help of a mirror to practice and speak on the topics. Make note of tongue slippages and other falter and try to improve on them. Work on translating complex ideas into statements. Record your own videos every day to improve each day and you will be astonished to see the improvements you make in a few days. Revisit your earlier videos to review the improvements. Learn how to speak crisp, confidently, and unhindered. You will certainly walk with confidence when entering your GD room.
GD requires a lot of spontaneity while speaking during the assessment. The thoughts need to be devised nicely into a strong statement, to draw the attention of the group towards you. If you stammer or make pauses, you will be interrupted by others on an immediate basis. This requires long practice to ace it. Take the help of a mirror to practice and speak on the topics. Make note of tongue slippages and other falter and try to improve on them. Work on translating complex ideas into statements. Record your own videos every day to improve each day and you will be astonished to see the improvements you make in a few days. Revisit your earlier videos to review the improvements. Learn how to speak crisp, confidently, and unhindered. You will certainly walk with confidence when entering your GD room.
Prime Mover BenefitInitiating the discussion is beneficial, as the selectors can recall the candidates who started the GD. But, remember to take the lead only when you understand the topic thoroughly. Organize your contemplations and formulate the statements as you would present them. Write down these statements before the GD starts. Be confident and precise.  This being the first move, if you have spoken well, it will set a positive note for you in the evaluation and will help you sustain the GD
Initiating the discussion is beneficial, as the selectors can recall the candidates who started the GD. But, remember to take the lead only when you understand the topic thoroughly. Organize your contemplations and formulate the statements as you would present them. Write down these statements before the GD starts. Be confident and precise.  This being the first move, if you have spoken well, it will set a positive note for you in the evaluation and will help you sustain the GD
MediatorWhen the discussion is deviating from the aim and topic, enter the discussion and point out the digression. Make a valid point, if you think so, and open the viewpoints for further discussion. This will set a good example for the demonstration of your professional temperament and maturity.
When the discussion is deviating from the aim and topic, enter the discussion and point out the digression. Make a valid point, if you think so, and open the viewpoints for further discussion. This will set a good example for the demonstration of your professional temperament and maturity.
Discussion EtiquettesPresent positive body language and hand gestures. Stay sensitive and listen to what others have to say. Speak always in continuation to the earlier point. If you have a new perspective, say, “I would like to raise a point”. If you actually listen to someone and support or contradict and make some contribution, it scores you big. If you have an opposing opinion, oppose it but, do it positively and constructively with respect to the audience.Quality is always crucial, so speak relevant points with confidence, without interrupting anyone. Instead of trying to grab a chance to speak time and again, add value to what you speak.
Present positive body language and hand gestures. Stay sensitive and listen to what others have to say. Speak always in continuation to the earlier point. If you have a new perspective, say, “I would like to raise a point”. If you actually listen to someone and support or contradict and make some contribution, it scores you big. If you have an opposing opinion, oppose it but, do it positively and constructively with respect to the audience.
Quality is always crucial, so speak relevant points with confidence, without interrupting anyone. Instead of trying to grab a chance to speak time and again, add value to what you speak.
Tips To Follow, For a Positive GD Participation
Here are a few tips to tackle situations, when in a GD
Be yourself and be natural, this will make your responses spontaneous.
To speak, is the minimal requirement of a GD. Write notes, list down the points to speak, create an outline and note multiple facets of the topic. When you let others speak, they will let you speak, and the GD will flow naturally.
If you decide to take the lead and initiate the discussion, be sure that that you deliver quality content and that you lead the discussion towards the right direction.
Observe the patterns in a GD. There are highs and lows during the discussion. Wait for the vociferous moments to low down and then take the entry into the conversation. But when there are no low moments take a step ahead and get inside the conversation tactfully.
When you want to enter the discussion, there is no way better than asking a question. It attracts the attention of the group towards what you have to say.
When you need to interject someone, do not cut them short, allow them to speak their point, and then enter the discussion.
When you want to interject the other person with your viewpoint, do it using supporting phrases like, “I agree with what you say, my friend…..”
Use facts and illustrations to put forth your thought process.
Listen to others actively, it will help you understand the topic better, and take on from where the other participant left.
Be assertive but not aggressive. Put your points across rationally and strongly but do not raise the voice or dominate others.
Making friends and allies is an important part of being heard and getting positive responses. You build allies when you give them their chance to speak, add value to their points. Smile and appear friendly, and they will not interject you and will also support your arguments.
It is the quality of content that you speak that matters more than the duration for which you speak.
Avoid, aggression, negativity, unfocussed behaviour, wrong facts, and being highly individualistic.
Having covered all the strategies and the tips for your GD assessment here is hoping that this brief tutorial will help you crack your GD interviews substantially.
Also Read: How Should I Prepare For WAT And PI For Top IIMs?
--- https://mbaroi.in/group-discussions/gd-etiquette/
Group Discussion Etiquette
Group Discussion is a vital phase in the admission process to top MBA schools. A Group Discussion does not just evaluate a candidate on the knowledge, but many other important skills like communication, group dynamics, and leadership, etc. are taken under advisement. Being an important part of the MBA selection process, a clearly winning progression at this stage is crucial to making it to the desired business School.
Etiquettes are a complex set of good behavioural patterns and social interactions that reflects a lot about your personality. Your etiquettes are a reflection of your society’s customs, ethical codes, history, and the rubrics of the groups that we belong to. For your MBA-GD task, good etiquettes are mostly concentrated around making people near you feel more at ease and reaching an agreeable solution.
Participants for MBA admissions in a group discussion are required to discuss the assigned GD topic, wrestle with it, and bring out good opinions to it. They are expected to arrive at a shared consensus or at least reach an understanding among themselves, of the different perspectives on the topic. The task is not easy and does not come about naturally. For this kind of resolution, the skills must be moulded, and practiced. A few set of protocols, politeness, and decorum takes you a long way in proving relevant and effective in discussions.
Golden Rules for Good Conduct and Etiquettes in a GD
Remember, these important GD etiquettes while participating, to come out a winner in team-based discussions:
Do not arrive late to the GD test and dress professionally.
Stay well within the framework of the topic. Avoid talking about things that are off the topic, as it restricts the group from holding a meaningful discussion within a given time.
Instead of asking closed-end questions, try to frame open-end questions whenever possible.
Do not interrupt the speaker only because you disagree with their point. Interrupt only when one does not stop speaking or is moving off the topic.
Avoid making outright negative comments. Instead of saying “this is a wrong point”, frame it like this: “I understand your point but there are some issues that should be addressed”. When it is absolutely important to negate, say it politely with some valid reasons. Therefore, it is important to be familiar with useful expressions for voicing opinions, agreeing, and disagreeing.
Keep your body language relaxed and keep smiling.
Speak sensibly with confidence and organised thoughts. Maintain a balanced tone while objecting to the points. Do not ever raise your voice.
Pay attention to what others are speaking. Make notes, if you have other opinions; refer to what they said when the time is right. Agree and acknowledge the good points brought up by others.
If you thought that other member’s counterargument was valid, take it gracefully. You can use the statement: “ You have just pointed out something that I have noticed only now”If you thought that the argument presented by other member is not correct, then you may say: “The two of us seem to have a different outlook to this ….”
Stay calm even when someone makes a personal attack or is openly aggressive.
If you think you lost the argument, it is not a bad idea to show some maturity and let them win. Letting others win does not lead to the loss of your points. Proceed further with the next point of the debate.
Do not sound dominating because it is a discussion, not a debate.
Eyes convey a lot of emotions when you are confused, distracted, angry, etc. Therefore, make your eyes do the positive signaling and keep maintaining eye contact with everyone.
Drumming your hands, clenching the table/chair, tapping pen, fidgeting, rustling paper, moving your chair, etc. are all signs of nervousness. Avoid such gestures.
Be enthusiastic but under control. Adapt and cooperate by looking at the situation.
Do not point fingers at others or ridicule them while you deliver your points.
Try to draw out quieter members, this helps in achieving some balance in the group and adds up some new viewpoints.
You may be a very smart candidate, but if you do not know when and how to behave in a certain way, it may not get you farther. In an MBA selection process, you are just one in many students and the panelists are a busy lot. The weightage given to etiquette and manners is huge, because it holds the attention of the judges. Your attire, walk, body language, discussion style, team spirit, listening skills are very important. Confidence is the vital tip and wins half the battle when delivered in balance. So, the thumb rule for good etiquette is to use “Hard Facts and Soft Voice”
--- https://mbaroi.in/group-discussions/gd-topics/
TRENDING GROUP DISCUSSION(GD) TOPICS
Trending GD Topics for MBA Aspirants
Group discussions are initiatory rites for many Top MBA Colleges in India. Candidates have to perform well in the GD rounds to score better rank in overall rankings. GD and PI play crucial roles as candidates with good scores have the highest chances of getting selected. Most of the time trading gd topics are related to something that happened recently. By this, the panel wants to check if a candidate is aware of the current trends or not. There are 3 facets to the preparation of GD assessments for developing and polishing your team-based discussion skills:
You learn by reading more. Be aware of the trending news affairs, past GD topics and regularly read varying opinions on different subjects.
Practicing to be a good listener.
Learning to speak competently with appropriate arguments and facts.
Of all the 3 aspects, working on various discussion topics regularly, will not just increase your familiarity and information, but will improve your skills to fare well in a GD. Since there is no shortcut to excel in a GD round, practicing and active participation are the only ways to learn. Whatever the topic, the aim of a GD conclusion should be to resolve a problem or to bring out the best ideas. Therefore, several types of situations and thoughts are thrown upon the candidates for brainstorming during the GD.
Improve by picking some powerful discussion matters and issues. Follow newspapers and articles to have good content at your disposal immediately. Many people believe that the questions asked in a GD round are from Current Affairs and happenings around the world. But the GD topics can be bifurcated into following types:
Government Schemes & Laws
Technology
Politics
Social Issues
Here is a list of a few important Group Discussion topics based on the past and current selection trends.  These topics will help you comprehend the way a topic assigned to you, can be processed well for a Group discussion.
Trending GD Topics on Business & Economy
End of a Edtech Era - Byjus
Indian Budget 2024 - Goods and Bads
Recession in India
Inflation Impact on India
Will E-Commerce Dominate Physical Stores?
Cryptocurrency as an Investment Option
Lockdown in India: After 4 Phases of lockdown, ‘Unlock Begins’: Impact on Economy
Lockdown in India: Impact on Economy
Airport Management Monopoly by Adnani's
Impact of Covid 19 on global economy
Famous Topics on Government Schemes, Laws & Politics
Implementation of CAA
Arrest of Arvind Kejriwal By ED
Digital Rupee - Are we ready for this?
Agneepath Scheme Details
Why did PM Modi Repeal Farm Laws?
The Idea Will Make India a Manufacturing Hub
What is "Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan"
Farm Bill 2020- Pros, Cons, and Challenges
Article 370 and Division of Jammu kashmir
Ban on Chinese App in India
India - China Relations
2024 MBA Trending GD Topics on Technology
Devin AI - End of Software Engineering
Impact of 5g technology
Artificial Intelligence Impact on Human life
Metaverse Group Discussion Topic
Mission to Mars: Can India Afford Spending a Fortune on Such Projects?
Digital Payments in India
Mission to Mars
Online Education – Benefits, and Challenges
What is Data Privacy and Why Data Privacy is Important?
GD Topics on Social Issues
Water Problem in Country
Ladkah is in Trouble
Women in the defense workforce
Role of Media in Society
Ban on Tobacco Products
Lockdown: How It Is Helpful In Prevention of Corona Virus, Impacts, Pros and Cons
Unemployment in India
Lesson for the world from covid 19
How 2020 will shape 2021
Other Trending MBA Group Discussion Topics
Creativity vs Knowledge
Olympics in India - It is possible or not?
Smart Cities - Do We really need it?
Taiwan and China Conflict
Russia and Ukraine War Group Discussion
What If Aliens Land on earth
Ott vs theater
Work From Home vs Work From Office
CAT Exam
CAT coaching Institute in India
Top MBA Colleges in Pune
MBA Colleges in Delhi
--- https://mbaroi.in/personal-interviews/
What is a Personal Interview?
Tips for a successful PI
Types of Questions
Get your tie ready, wear a crisp shirt, iron your blazer, get your resume ready, pop some breath mints and get ready because we are about to crack the code for a successful personal interview.
A Personal Interview can take two major forms. It can be conducted as a job interview or a college admissions Interview.
In a job interview, the HR panel conducts a one on one interview session with the candidates. The job candidate is asked questions on his/her skills, personal experiences, where they see
themselves 5 years down the line, their idea about the company and its works and so on. This gives the company officials a clearer idea of the candidate’s work capacity, personality, and future goals. All these factors are crucial for the company in choosing the right candidate.
Simply put, Interviewer meets with the candidate to evaluate their skills, capabilities, and level of experience.
In a college admissions interview, the student is interviewed by say, a diverse panel of Professors or college authority officials to test the student’s knowledge and view on the subject matter.
The hallmark of a Personal Interview is the one to one or direct interaction between the candidate and the interviewer.
Look sharp - Wear formals. Iron your attire and look confident. Confidence is the secret ingredient to success.
Positive body language – We know that you'll be nervous but don’t let it show. A firm handshake, eye to eye contact, a smile and positive responses can make the deal. Your body language is important. Sit in a comfortable posture and don't fidget. Don’t be a
sweating mess. Remember, this isn’t the end of everything. So, give it your best shot and hope for the best.
Prepare a strong resume – Your resume is a reflection of you. Interviewers also tend to pick questions based on the information that CV/Resume carries. Interviewers expect candidates to be fully prepared with minute details on any information that you
provide in the resume or CV.
Think before you speak – the key to answering correctly is understanding the question properly. If you’re not sure what the question is asking for or what it means, then politely ask the interviewer to either repeat the question or ask for a clarification.
Take a short pause – before answering the question. Think about all the possible answers, take into account all the information given to you in the question.
Do your research - Extensively research about the job profile you are being interviewed for, the company profile, history of the company, their achievements, their story of success, their products & services, their target market and so on. A
thorough research will provide you with all the necessary information that you'll need to answer questions based on you on profile and the company. If you're a student sitting for a college PI say for an MBA institute then do a thorough research on the
college, your chosen stream, and the future scope.
Drive the interview towards your strength – Different questions will be asked to different candidates applying for different purposes. But the candidate should always aim at driving the interview towards his/her area of strength. Start inviting questions
or open topics that you’re confident of getting right.
Ask Questions – This isn’t mandatory but is always advised. If you're joining a new company then ask questions regarding the working hours, pay, incentives, holidays, the company culture and more. If you’re joining a new college then ask about the
faculty, the infrastructure, the study hours, the degree, placements, scope of the stream and more.
Be Honest – At times, the interviewer may ask certain personal questions. In that case, be frank, be honest about your intentions, your opinions and avoid being too diplomatic in answering the questions.
Communication is key – Brush up your communication skills right from the beginning of your career. Lack of proper communication skills is one of the primary reasons why candidates fail to impress the interviewer. If you want to crack any
interview, then make sure you focus on the development of proper communication and interpersonal skills.
Avoid Arguments - try to avoid having any kind of argument with the interviewer because that can create a negative impact. An argument that you make with an interviewer would certainly lessen your chances to get selected.
Practice, Practice, Practice – Practice speaking to your interviewer. Do a few trial runs, prepare your questions and answers before the main interview?
End on a positive note
Types of Questions in a PI and tips to answer them
There is particular pattern or structure for answering this question. There is no right or wrong. Simply put here you just give a summary about yourself. Mention 2-3 achievements, something that sets you apart from the rest of the crowd. Briefly mention your education
history, your career plans, achievements, extra-curriculars, what drives you and so on.
This section plays a major role in the final hiring decision of the interviewer. The trick here is to mention relevant strengths and irrelevant weaknesses. Your strengths should be relevant to
the job role and the industry, something the company can churn to boost profits. Mention weaknesses that do not make a lasting impact on the interviewer's mind and make sure you end it by saying that you’re working on improving them.
Be ambitious. Show that you're able to look and plan ahead. Take this as an opportunity to show that you’re planning on sticking to this company to help it reach greater heights. Try incorporating that you want to work for a company that values you, your skills, and your
input. Also, chip in some humorous answers too.
This is another crucial capability that the company is looking for in its candidates. You have portrayed yourself as being capable of handling stressful situations and making effective decisions. Mention some stress relieving activities that you adhere to. Bottom-line is that you
need to make sure that the company knows that you can smoothly handle any stressful situation.
Now this is a tricky one! Talking about monetory compensation can be an uncomfortable subject. But here’s how you can handle it smoothly. Instead of quoting your income expectations, turn the question around to the employer and ask them what they're expecting
to pay to a candidate with your qualifications and skills for this particular job profile. Alternatively, you can research and get an idea of the income range. Once you have a range in mind, state the highest possible income value based on your skills and experience, but be
sure to communicate that you are flexible. Make sure the interviewer knows that you want the job, that you’re sure that you’re the perfect candidate for it and you're willing to negotiate.
Prepare 2-3 questions for this section. Stick to simple questions relating to the job profile, the company culture, how you grow and how the company can cater to your career expectations. avoid asking questions about salary or benefits.
In the end, remember that if your confidence is everything. Even if you get some of the answers wrong, if you speak and if your demeanor is confident then that’s a massive brownie point for you.
Last but not the least, if you don't get this job/college then just chill. It isn't the end of the road. Keep practicing, keep acquiring more skills, develop yourself and brush up your communication skills. And remember you’ll crack any interview if you put your mind to it.
The tips and the prep are just part and parcel of the journey.
--- https://mbaroi.in/blog/gd-topics/
Category: GD Topics
Books vs Screens: Impact on Us | A Detailed Discussion
The last few years have been quite turbulent with the awesome debate that started on traditional books versus reading through digital screens. While everything continues to change around, the aspect of reading also continues to adopt a radical mutation. Books have always been the foundation …
New IT Bill 2025 – Income Tax Bill 2025
In February of this year, 2025, the Indian government presented to the public the Income Tax Bill for the year with the objectives of modernizing and simplifying the tax system in the country. The whole reform would replace the lot lying in the Income Tax …
Mahakumbh 2025: The Grand Confluence of Spirituality and Modernity
The Mahakumbh Mela, being among the largest religious assemblies in the world, is scheduled to take place in Prayagraj from January 13 to February 26, 2025. The fair is held every 12 years and, during that time, witnesses an influx of millions of devotees, saints, …
Union Budget 2025: Key Highlights and Discussion
The Union Budget 2025 presented by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on February 1, 2025, addresses economic recovery, infrastructural development, and tax reforms. Directly addressing middle-class interests, the budget aims to uplift businesses and critical sectors such as agriculture, research, and export-focused industries. To relieve immediate …
Innovation vs Invention: Understanding the Key Differences
Innovation and invention have been the drivers of progress in this fast-paced world. Many people use the terms interchangeably, but they differ significantly. Understanding such differences is important for businesses, entrepreneurs, and researchers. Let us examine their definitions, differences, and relevance in economic growth. What …
Deepseek AI: Revolutionizing the Future of Artificial Intelligence
The evolution of artificial intelligence has entered rapid-wheeling motion and its Deepseek AI is one of the few innovations coming in this field. The AI model is being touted as a powerful one across the frontiers of data processing, natural language understanding, and automation. But …
The Silver Economy: Opportunities and Challenges in 2025
This demographic trend witnesses the economic opportunity and challenge posed by the ageing population. This trend is changing economies everywhere, with older adults considered a very potent consumer market force. With increasing numbers, financial freedom, and specific needs, the elderly population is affecting the healthcare, …
Doomscrolling: Endless Negative News and Its Effects
Nowadays, with us all hooked up non-stop, doomscrolling – that urge to keep seeing bad news on the internet non-stop – has popped up as a pretty big worry. This word got started around the time of the pandemic and it paints a picture of …
Digital Divide: The GD Topic
The GD Topic The digital divide describes the difference between people, homes, and groups that can use digital tech and those that can’t. This gap goes beyond just technology; it creates a social and economic split that affects learning, jobs, health care, and how well …
Should India Allow Dual Citizenship?
Dual citizenship is a controversial issue around the world and India is not an exception. Currently, India prohibits dual citizenship under the Indian Citizenship Act which came into force in 1955 Single citizenship: this means that an individual cannot be a citizen of two countries …
Gender Equality at Workplace
Gender equality in the workplace is still a global challenge, even after years of advocacy and action. This blog discusses gender equality GD topic for everyone interested in this subject. As per sources, in the same position; for every dollar a man earns, a woman …
Climate Change GD Topic
Climate change GD topic is one such topic that never going to out of fashion (at least, not in the near future). So, read this blog carefully to make yourself impressive in front of the group discussion panel. It’s an indispensable GD because it affects …
National Green Hydrogen Mission -GD Topic
The National Green Hydrogen Mission GD Topic is among the most searched topics by MBA candidates for their group discussions. This mission is a revolutionary initiative by India to power its clean energy. The government in January 2023, announced this mission aiming to make the …
Sustainble Transport – GD Topic
Sustainable transport GD Topic is vital as climate change, urbanization, and resource depletion negatively affect global communities. Transportation contributes to environmental and social issues, so, it becomes a pivotal subject for group discussions (GD) across academic, corporate, competitive platforms and more. One of the most developed …
Quick Commerce vs Brick and Mortar: The Battle for Retail Supremacy
The retail sector is rapidly evolving and so is the competition among the two. Quick commerce and brick-and-mortar stores are shaping the future of consumer experiences by offering the best of their services. Traditional brick-and-mortar stores are well known for their tangibility and immediacy. Helps customers …
Posts navigation
--- https://mbaroi.in/top-10-business-schools/
Top 10 MBA colleges in India
NIRF 2024 MBA Rankings - Top 10 MBA Colleges of India
NIRF released the rankings of the Top 10 MBA Colleges in India. Despite having tough competition IIM Ahmedabad again top the list followed by IIM Bengaluru and IIM Kozhikode in 2nd and 3rd position respectively.  Surprisingly FMS(Faculty of Management Studies - University of Delhi) has failed to make it into the elite list of top 10 business schools of India. IIT Delhi surpassed IIM Calcutta in the Rankings and secured the 4th spot on the list. XLRI Jamshedpur is the only private business school to enter this list having 9th rank.  IIM Bombay also surpassed IIM Lucknow and secured the 6th position whereas IIM Indore and IIT Bombay secured 8th and 10th rank.
Based on an extensive research, here, you will be proficiently guided by expert opinions
and industry experience with respect to MBA admissions 2024. The important parameters
and the methodology used by IIRF and these honorable organizations are regarded as
India’s most credible B-school Rankings. NIRF rankings are out and IIMs still lead the charts
but XLRI, MDI, SPJIMR, and IMT have unwaveringly retained their
leadership, in spite of hard competition.
Ranking of Best 10 MBA Colleges in India
Factors Considering the Ranking of Top 10 MBA Colleges 2024
NIRF considered many vital aspects before releasing the list of the top 10 business schools in India. Colleges that perform best in all aspects appear on the list. Most people think about the placements but that is not the only criterion to enter in list of top 10 b schools in India. There are a total of 5 factors and each carries 100 marks and colleges with higher marks appear in the ranking. Below are the 5 factors considered by the NIRF for rankings -
Placements of Batch
Reputation of Companies
Alumni Network
Research and Publication
Global Recognition
Faculty
Infrastructure
Career Opportunities
Institute Reputation
Eligibility Criteria for Top 10 B School of India
Candidates need to have a graduation degree from a recognised university or institute in India.
A minimum of 50% marks are required in a bachelor's degree or equivalent.
Candidates need to appear in the Common Admission Test (CAT) for admission to the top 10 management institutes of India. Only for XLRI candidates can also take admission via XAT.
Scores of GMAT are also accepted by the colleges.
There is no maximum age limit for admission to these institutes.
Candidates with work experience are more likely to get admission instead of fresher people.
All the top 10 business school have their Group discussion and personal interview rounds for admissions.
Top 10 Government MBA Colleges in India
The list of top government MBA colleges is always filled with the IIMs but in 2024 some IITs have surpassed the IIMs. Department of Management Studies of IIT Delhi has secured the 4th rank by beating IIM Calcutta and Mumbai. Due to poor performance in the 2024 placement, IIM Calcutta has been shited to the 5th position. IIT Mumbai defeated the IIFT, and baby IIMs to enter the top 10 list. The good news is that all the government MBA colleges on the list have successfully placed their student with an average package of more than 18.75 LPA.
Best 10 Private Business Schools of India in 2024
XLRI is the only private management institution which makes it into top overall top 10 management institute rankings. Chandigarh University and Amrita Vishwa Vidyapeetham have made it to the top 10 private b schools in India surpassing the institute like Jaipuria, Taxila, TAPMI, IFCAI and more. SPJIMR despite having the top average placement among all the private business schools have secured 5th rank. It indicates that NIRF rankings are not primarily based on the placements instead they carefully look for other aspects as well.
Employement Rate Wise Best 10 B-Schools in India
Question: Which is the best MBA College in India?
Answer :IIM Ahemdabad tops the elite list of best management institutes in India followed by IIM Bangalore and IIM Kozhikode.
Question: Which are the Top colleges for MBA in India?
Answer :Here is the list of Best colleges for MBA in India - 1. IIM Ahemdabad, 2. IIM Bangaluru, 3. IIM Kozhikode, 4. IIT Delhi, 5. IIM Calcutta
Question: Which MBA College has the highest placement?
Answer :IIM has rhe highest placement of 1.75 crore followed by the IIM Bengaluru with 1.15 Crore in 2024.
Question :  Which MBA Programme or course in the best?
Answer : Here are some best MBA Specialisations - Finance, Human resources, Operations, Supply and Chain, Marketing, Business Analytics, and Information Technology.
Related Articles:
Top MBA Colleges in Bangalore.
Top MBA Colleges Accepting MAT Score.
Top MBA Colleges in Delhi.
--- https://mbaroi.in/top-50-business-schools/
Top 50 MBA colleges in India
Why do MBA aspirants bother with rankings of the Top 50 MBA Colleges in India? The answer is quite simple because ranking the best business schools provides crucial information such as employment, ROI, teachers, infrastructure, alumni network, etc. Management institute rankings guide the students to choose an institute that suits their requirements best. After a careful analysis of the performance of colleges, these rankings are formed. Hence you as a student understand the trends, academics, experience, and network. In other words, it works as a checklist for the best business colleges.  Rankings motivate colleges to push past their limits, be relevant to the standards, and match the expectations of the market.
In 2023, layoffs and recession in the tech industry impacted the employment rate of many colleges. These Top 50 MBA Colleges in 2024 in India Rankings do not just provide a side-by-side comparison to their counterparts but are also based on historical performances. While rankings give an understanding of upward and downward mobility, they also an understanding of brand dependability and consensus.
Glance at the Top 50 Business Schools in India 2024
There are a number of rankings to refer and comprehend about, where the MBA College
stands today and where they are heading to. While a few named ranking agencies in India
country are IIRF, CSR, Business India, Business Word and NIRF. The below MBA Colleges rankings
are based on IIRF ranking 2023 edition. IIRF unveiled its exclusive 2023, data-
driven rankings for management schools and as was anticipated, IIMs have once more
ranked in elevation.
Here is the list of Top 50 MBA Colleges in India:
Best 50 Private MBA Colleges of India
Updated Fees of Best 50 B-Schools of India
Published by “IIRF Rankings” the above top 50 management institutes rankings provide the answer to some of the significant questions that MBA college applicants looking for. This Top 50 MBA Colleges list was made after taking some of the most important factors into consideration.  These are :
Placement Performance
Teaching and learning Resources
Research
Placement support
External Perceptions
Alumnus
Startup Opportunities
Global Rankings
Also Read: Group Discussion Topics
Understand application requirements properly.
Identify the  MBA program  and course to know its alignment to your career goals.
Know if the aspects of this business college for MBA have value for you?
Must consider the overall cost of pursuing the selected MBA program.
Should most importantly asses their probabilities of attaining success in getting admissions in MBA program that was aimed for.
The competition among Top 50 Business Schools is getting stronger but for the candidates, this
interprets into larger and better opportunities. Not just the opportunities magnify but the best
infrastructures and learning inputs are constantly being explored by these institutes to keep
them ranked high in the list. Instead of looking at the overall ranking score of an institute,
one can look into the scores indicated at the parameter level and choose what is more
important for them.
Also if location is not a constraint you can explore other Top MBA Colleges in India
which are less competitive. The brilliant news for hopefuls is to cheer about  MBA
admissions 2024 . The job markets are perceived to be booming in immediate years and
opportunities are plenty, so have a broader viewpoint to make a difference!
Also Read: CAT Date & CAT Exam
FAQ -  Top 50 MBA Colleges
Q.Which is the Number 1 MBA college in India?
Ans. IIM Ahemdabad tops the list of best MBA colleges in India. IIM Ahemdabad is in the list of top 50 MBA colleges across the world. For the past few years IIM Ahemdabad able to pull out the best performance in terms of academics, placements, and skill development.
Q. Which colleges are best for MBA in India?
Ans. There are many good colleges available for the MBA in India. Top 50 are : IIM-Ahemdabad, IIM-Calcutta, IIM-Bangluru, FMS, Taxila and more.
Q. Which MBA Colleges offeres higher salary?
Ans. In 2024 IIM Ahemdabad provided the highest international package of 1.75 Crore and IIM-Calcutta provides the highest domestic package of 1.15 Crore.
Q.How to take admission in Top MBA colleges in India?
Ans. Candidates who wants to take admission in the best mba colleges of India need to crack the entrance test like CAT Exam, CMAT, MAT and many more are there. After giving the exam based on your score colleges will invite you for the Group Discussion and PI process.
Also Read
How to write a Strong Resume for MBA Application.
Top MBA Colleges Accepting CMAT Score.
Top MBA Colleges in Jaipur Accepting CAT Score.
--- https://mbaroi.in/top-100-business-schools/
Top 100 MBA colleges in India
A lot of Students and MBA aspirants research deep on Top 100 MBA Colleges in India
and abroad as they try to pave a clear path to their career success. So many questions like,
where to apply, what test to take, what is the cost involved, take a fore seat while deciding
at the kind of colleges and programs to opt for? Ranking of Top MBA Colleges
help these contenders understand more about MBA education. In our country, MBA is one
renowned and most pursued post-graduation courses due to the fact that it is a stimulating
and remunerative career.
Among this pool of Top 100 MBA colleges in India, it is important to
understand which MBA college one deserves according to his/her calibers. These colleges
, over the years maintained the level of education and upgraded regularly and timely to
be able to deliver a cluster of highly skilled and smart crowd of managers. This IIRF Top 100 Colleges in India list
has been arrived with a lot of research and sample survey.
Here is the list of Top 100 MBA Colleges in India:
--- https://mbaroi.in/blog/top-mba-colleges-in-india/
MBA and PGDM from the best business schools are the programs that have the highest ROI the moment we talk about professional education across the globe. Completing an MBA degree from a top business school is the vision of every student. IIM Ahmedabad, IIM-Bangalore, IIM Calcutta are ranked among the Top three MBA colleges in India on numerous factors in virtually all the rankings, though the fee structure at these top business schools is very high, almost more than 23 lakhs for the course. While the FMS (Faculty of Management Studies DU), is one of the top MBA colleges in India with Fee structure as low as Rs. 200,000 with better ROI than most of the IIMs.
List of Top Colleges Offering MBA/PGDM/MMS
IIM-A has been usually considered as the best MBA college. IIM-A has great professors, talented alumni, and good placements which makes it a top MBA College. Recently IIM-B has been shown better than IIM- A in international and few national rankings. It has popped up as a strong contender to IIM-A.
IIM Calcutta, XLRI, and NMIMS are a few MBA institutions that are among the list of top 50 MBA colleges. Other best MBA colleges include MDI,  JBIMS, FMS, IMI, IMT, TAXILA, SPJIMR ETC.
Here is a list of some best MBA colleges include both Government and Private Business schools.
IIM-A
IIM-B
IIM-C
FMS-DU
IIM-K
ISB-Hyderabad
XLRI-Jamshedpur
NMIMS
SPJIMR
TAXILA
The most important factor while selecting the best MBA College is the ROI of the program. The ROI should not be considered as Fee divided by placement package. This could be misleading, rather MBAROI should be taken as long-term benefits of the program. Generally, all top business Schools should make you Corepati or Millionaire within 5 to 8 years of your MBA.
The other factor that is considered for Best MBA College is the pool of professors, curriculum, and pedagogy. Generally, all top b schools have internationally accredited professors. Infrastructure also plays a major role while selecting the top business school.
Consultancy
Sales & Marketing
Human Resources
Operations
IT & Systems
International Business
Best MBA Colleges in India: Admission Eligibility Criteria:
For admission to the MBA/PGDM course, the students should have a minimum of 50% marks in Graduation from a recognized university. For SC/ST & other backward classes, it is 45%.
Aspirants must have passed graduation or should be in the final year in any discipline or equivalent from a recognized university as the minimum eligibility criteria for MBA. Specialized degree holders such as MBBS/CA/CS/ICWAI, etc. are also eligible to pursue MBA.
Also Read:- IIM Call Predictor
Aspirants need to appear for any of these tests based on the college requirement. These entrance exams are also known as the top national-level MBA entrance exams which are approved by AICTE for admission to MBA/PGDM colleges. As per AICTE, the following exams are acceptable by the top MBA colleges in India.
ATMA.
Apart from the above NMAT, SNAP and IBSAT are for a few specific colleges/ Universities.
Q: Which are the top MBA colleges in India?A: The top MBA College in India is IIM-Ahmedabad, followed by IIM-Bangalore. IIM C is on number 3.
Q: Which is better for MBA? Government or Private B School.A: This depends on the candidate. All MBA institutions that are approved by UGC or AICTE are good, as they offer an up-to-date syllabus. Generally, there is not much difference in the fee structure offered by Govt or Private Business schools.
Q: How to decide which college is the best MBA college in India?A: While choosing the Best MBA College in India, the candidate should keep in mind the following:
Government recognition
Curriculum and pedagogy
Infrastructure,
MBAROI.in ranking,
Fees
Placement records.
Q: Which are the best MBA colleges in India other than IIMs?A: Apart from IIMs, FMS- DU, MDI Gurgaon, SPJIMR Mumbai, IMI Delhi, IIFM Bhopal, XLRI, Department of Management studies of the IITs, FORE, TAXILA BUSINESS SCHOOL NMIMS, SIBM etc are top business schools in India.
Q: What are the specializations offered by top b-school in India?A: Most of the MBA colleges offer dual major specializations. Following is the list of major specializations offered:
Industrial Engineering
Q: Which are the best MBA colleges in India based on placements?A: Top five MBA institutions in India based on placements are:
IIM L
ISB H
Q: What are the different entrance exams for MBA in India?A: The top national-level MBA entrance exams approved by AICTE for admission to MBA/PGDM are as below:
Also Read: Top MBA Entrance Exams 2021-22
Top Colleges for Sports Management Courses in India
--- https://mbaroi.in/top-b-schools-for-business-analytics/
Top MBA Colleges For Business Analytics
Business Analytics allows managers to collect, store and evaluate business data to boost their decision making prowess. In India and abroad, many of the businesses are still unskilled and do not know how to capitalize the benefits of Business
Analytics. Since Business Analytics enhances a company’s abilities, there is some level of expertise required in analyzing data, and therefore there is a great demand for Business Analytics specialists in the market today. This is a career in high
demand with a high salary benefits.
The roles in BA are growing much faster than the projected growth of this employment. This unprecedented growth is due to the fact that it is applicable to all the industries. Hence is the demand for qualified professionals who know how to
work with data sets is growing continuously.
However, before freezing upon your choice of B-Schools For Business Analytics, it is important to assess the curriculum. Rankings are used to weigh business schools across various categories, so that candidates can zero down upon a suitable Mba
College For Business Analytics as per their goals. IIRF (Indian Institutional Ranking Framework) select the Top MBA Colleges in India to organize them downhill. Refer to IIRF and give an edge to your Business Analytics skills through top business
intelligence certifications.
IIRF has scored all Business Schools For Business Analytics in India on 7 performance indicators (Placement Performance, Teaching Learning and Resources, Research, Industry Income and Integration, Placement
Strategies with Support, and External Perception trusted nationwide by students, teachers, industry experts, and alumnus ) to find the best Colleges. Find out the distinctiveness of each of this top selection and see if it suits you right.
Ever since the last decade big data, cloud computing, and business analytics have become an important part for almost all companies. The road forward shows that data analytics science is future, and is here to stay. The term has tossed around in
every field.
The listed Top MBA Colleges in India have, over the time carved a niche to reach these spots among the top B-Schools For Business Analytics in India 2021. They bear an excellent reputation as they offer high-quality education. These annual
rankings have been arrived at by meticulously going through various parameters the institutes and their offerings. It is a complex process based on research, simplified into a precise list of best Business Schools For Business Analytic for
you. Make a perfect decision that will suit you the best through this authentic rating system, and use it to get to a right outcome.
From the above top Business analytics schools choose your certification wisely. Take your time and think about your skills sets, interests and experiences. Give it a direction by linking it your prospective careers and employment goals.
Choose your course based on your interest, availability of time, location, budget to accelerate your career. For the prospects, to build up the right skillset is imperative. They need right resources. The list of Mba College For Business Analytics above is
an endeavor to bring to you the best analytics programs. IIRF rankings are a step towards this direction.
Remember that your course material should cover all necessary aspects. This is an investment and invest wisely to extract complete benefits for future. Good Luck!
Top 100 MBA Colleges in India
Best Placement MBA Colleges In India
--- https://mbaroi.in/top-b-schools-for-marketing/
Top Colleges for MBA in Marketing
MBA in Marketing
Recent years have seen some serious shifts in the marketing field. Global audiences, social media, video marketing and market intelligence are all a few growing marketing trends. Companies keep looking to position themselves in
market using several ways.
The marketers must have a hand in marketing knowledge and at the same time keep pace with the changing marketing scenarios. MBA in Marketing prepares students to do all of these in best way. Who is doing marketing the best way is what matters to most of the companies and corporates.
Business School for MBA in Marketing do it through changes in curriculum, faculty hires,extracurricular offerings etc. Apart from this, the schools that help their graduates bag desirable jobs are the ones preferred by most applicants. Also the
applicants need to have an idea about the best B School for MBA in marketing programs andtheir speed with the volatile market. The program's selectivity, speed, size, and relevance are its actual strengths.
Ranking for Top MBA Program in India 2021: Colleges for MBA in Finance &  Colleges for MBA in Business Analytics
Information about Business School for MBA in Marketing and what it includes is an important probe for the starters. Since getting an MBA has a huge amount of money, time, and effort involved it is worthwhile to put some efforts to find out how
will it all help you tomorrow. To find out the effectiveness of an MBA program, rely on some statistics and data.
Make a logical decision by weighing all the variables. The most compelling variable is the average salary. These stats based listings will
get you a clearer picture of what prospective students can expect and where should they enroll.
Here is the list of best performing MBA Colleges for marketing in India.
Just looking at the list may not always be as easy as it seems. Leverage what others have to say about your choice of B School for MBA in marketing. The true extent of a program can be understood from its people and their ideas. What career
services do students get, what is your affordability, accreditation, the schedule, faculty, time for completion of program, engagement in learningetc. are a few more decision making motives for students apart from rankings. Study about your
chance to establish meaningful career relationships you will get in college. Look at the mentorship programs, successful alum, networking skills also.
MBA helps you earn higher salary, good job and promotions; so earning an MBA is a wise move. Schools like ‘Taxila’s Business school’ have constantly made it to the top best Business Schools for MBA in Marketing. The new colleges like Taxila have
crisp programs to sharpen the marketing skills of students. They prepare them for small and big firms and also for every situation.You may now be able to select right business school for yourself. Take an insight into your profile & career aspirations
to draft the most suitable MBA application from among the above schools. Everyone has an accurate business school, which completely varies from one applicant to another.
Having a fair understanding of the top ranking list will have manifold benefits for the students applying. The competition among these schools is tough and this is where the candidates can reap benefits and have better opportunities. The
infrastructures and learning inputs also constantly improve to keep them ranked high.
--- https://mbaroi.in/top-b-schools-for-finance/
Top MBA Colleges For Finance
Every country, every business is always on a look out to build a robust financial framework in all the conditions and scenarios. This is an economic opportunity that many MBA in finance aspirants want to leverage. Even during the tougher times like
Covid pandemic,the jobs in finance are expected to boom. The foundation for finance specialization is laid in a Business School for MBA in finance.
From creative accounting, investment analysis, mergers, acquisitions and corporate restructuring and corporate governance and more, finance is now an important aspect of all the businesses. A lot of graduates look forward to a career in finance sector. B School for MBA in finance prepares graduates to specialize in areas like investment banking
and corporate finance.
IIRF list is a very dependable and influential MBA ranking. Taxila School has yet again made its way up in the list. The rankings give an insight about India's top business schools and colleges for MBA in finance based on seven important
parameters that matter a lot to the applicants. The rankings take into consideration various factors like career placements, employer reputation, research strength, faculty etc.
The stated lists of ‘Business Schools for MBA in finance’ have cutting-edge teaching and research methods as well as student and industry engagement also. This list of schools allocates a lot of their resources to preparing students for success in finance
field. Whether it is program faculty, coursework, and career services, every aspect is taken into account while positioning these schools.
While referring to any ranking system, do not just rely on one ranking system but check out various data points and use it to evaluate its competitiveness based on your requirements. Think of the schools where you are most competitive while
applying. Look at your area of interest, talk to your colleagues, friends, and mentors. Combine this qualitative feedback to your decision.
Look at the curriculum structure, its flexibility, student body; extracurricular activities and its reality connect with your professional goals. Have both of the subjective and objective information into account to take your decisions.
Determine your competitiveness in each of these colleges to see your chances of admission in these colleges for MBA in finance. Since one cannot depict a clear picture of any program, interact with the previous year students to know more.
Learn more about the faculty, by visiting the official website of the college. After all they are the building block of your future.
Also there is a lot of diversity in cultures in different B-schools. You need to check how easy it would be for you to adapt the
culture of your new environment. Next, find about the institute’s study format to know which format works for you better. Another important factor is the kind of financial aid you will be able to get in the form of fellowship programs, loans,
locational advantages etc. Financial Aid is a vital motivational factor as it directly impacts the  Return on Investment (ROI) of your MBA degree.
Get to know your business school well before you finalize upon your school with the help of rankings and with a little exercise based upon your personal objectives and accessibilities.
--- https://mbaroi.in/top-mba-colleges-for-fintech-in-india/
Top MBA Colleges for FinTech in India
MBA in FinTech
In the rapidly evolving landscape of finance, a new breed of professionals is emerging – those skilled at navigating the intersection of finance and technology. The rise of FinTech has created an unprecedented demand for individuals who can harness the power of innovation to reshape financial services. As the FinTech ecosystem continues to expand, specialized education in this field becomes paramount. In this article, we embark on a journey to uncover the top MBA in FinTech colleges, institutions shaping finance's future through cutting-edge education and industry-aligned expertise. Join us as in this article, we will explore the top 5 MBA colleges in India that are paving the way for the  future of finance through their MBA in FinTech programs.
An MBA in FinTech is your ticket to a career at the intersection of finance and technology. This synergy is the heart of Financial Technology or FinTech.  The program equips you with a blend of business acumen and technological prowess, making you invaluable to the growing number of FinTech companies and traditional financial institutions embracing technology. Within this rapidly growing sector, there lies a golden opportunity for those who possess a unique blend of financial expertise and technological savvy.
A career with an MBA in FinTech opens the doors to a dynamic and rapidly evolving landscape at the intersection of finance and technology. Here are some promising career pathways:
Financial Analyst - FinTech
Data Analyst - FinTech
Risk Manager - FinTech
Blockchain Specialist
Digital Payment Strategist
Financial Product Manager
Cryptocurrency Analyst
Regulatory Compliance Officer - FinTech
FinTech Entrepreneur
FinTech UX/UI Designer
The career landscape for MBA graduates in FinTech is vast and continually expanding, offering diverse opportunities to contribute to the transformation of the financial industry through technology.
Curriculum: Look for colleges offering specialized courses in blockchain, AI, data analytics, etc., relevant to the FinTech industry.
Industry Partnerships: Consider colleges collaborating with FinTech companies for internships and industry projects.
Faculty Expertise: Research faculty profiles to ensure they have industry and academic experience.
Placements and Alumni: Check the placements records and alumni's positions in the FinTech industry.
--- https://mbaroi.in/best-placement-mba-colleges/
Best Placement MBA Colleges in India
Master of Business Administration (MBA)
Layoffs and recessions at giant companies raise concerns about the employment of MBA graduates in the future. Companies are now looking for industry-ready candidates, not someone with only a degree. Management institutes or MBA colleges provide the industrial knowledge that will outclass the colleges with traditional study methods in terms of placements. We can see this happening now as some colleges have placements in crore and some MBA colleges barely manage to place a single student at a decent package. Let's find out the best MBA colleges for placements in India. Which further started gaining popularity and the number of MBA students at the Harvard business school went up to over 300.
By 1930, the
tremendous rise of business schools were noticed and other parts of Europe soon offered MBA courses. Now, ASSOCHAM (Associated Chambers of Commerce of India and Ceylon) states that only India has over 5500 institutes offering MBA programs, and very few of them are having best placements in the industry.
Get Latest MBA Exam Information
Unemployment is one of the major concerns in India regardless of having a reputed degree like an MBA. Also, that is not surprising at all as the standard of many management institutes is not up to the mark which makes it difficult for candidates to get a job. Reports of the Economic Times state that only 10% of MBA graduates in India are employable.  According to ASSOCHAM, reasons for low employability can be attributed to excess supply of candidates, poor quality of assessment for approval by AICTE, under qualified faculty, lack of basic skills, lesser work experience, and
lack of practical & problem solving skills of graduates.
So the placements are a key factor for aspirants while choosing their MBA Institute. Campus recruitments truly reflect the talent pool of the college and it brings opportunities and exposure for future students. This can be a life-changing decision
for every MBA applicant. So let us look at the ASSOCHAM Report on MBA employability.
B and C categorized MBA colleges mount un-employable graduates.
Barely 7% MBA graduates from non-IIMs are employable.
Out of 8150 MBA colleges, most of the Institutes are producing below par MBAs.
Students passing out from C and B category Business schools do not even earn a monthly salary of Rs 15000 or are not able to land up in an appropriate job.
There is an apprehension due to falling values of these B-schools. They are not properly regulated.
As per the data, while a student spends at least about Rs 5 to Rs 8 lakhs on the MBA program, they are able to earn only Rs 15,000 to Rs 20,000 monthly after graduation.
As per the placement trends of 2024 colleges such as IIMs, SPJIMR, Taxila Business School, Great Lakes, and IBS have outperformed other MBA colleges in terms of placements. Below are the insights on top management institutes placements to help candidates choose a better PGDM/MBA college for further studies.
There is an upward trend in the placements of MBA/PGDM colleges like IIMs, FMS, IIFT, SPJIMR, MDI, IMI, TAXILA, JBIMS, and IMT. The salary trends are also encouraging, taking into account the impelling slowdown in the economy.
The IIMs Ahmedabad, Bangalore, Calcutta, concluded their placements by February/March, but they publish placement reports only after IPRS Audit in the month of September. Some institutes have completed placements in the beginning
of placement drive itself. A few of these Institutes were IIM Kozhikode, IIFT, SPJIMR, Taxila Business School and IMI among others.
Taxila Business School was entitled with the "Best Placement Award"by ASSOCHAM for Continuous 2018, 2019 and 2020
CAT Exam Date
--- https://mbaroi.in/mba-colleges-by-location/
Colleges By Location
--- https://mbaroi.in/mba-colleges-by-location/mba-colleges-in-ahmedabad/
Introduction
If you are contemplating about undertaking to do an MBA course from Ahmedabad, IIM-A is the top B-School that no aspirant wants to miss a chance at admission. Although it is one of the best ranked MBA Institutes in India and Asia, getting an entry into it is a hard match. Ahmedabad, however is one of the flourishing cities of India.
There are a few fair points in favour of Ahmedabad city in terms of MBA education and career.
Ahmedabad has the best business-oriented environment for its MBA graduates.  The state’s native entrepreneurship nature, and an edge in commerce & trade makes it a very fast growing states since 2017.
There are MBA colleges in Ahmedabad accepting CAT, XAT, CMAT and MAT scores as well.
The moderate fee structure across the city for MBA education undoubtedly boosts the career trajectory with better return on investment.
Ahmedabad is constantly building opportunities in terms of employment. It employs its graduates with best packages around the globe.
There are better career prospects with its courses like MBA and PGDMs that absorb better understanding of the business world. This helps to acquire skilful administrative managerial positions. This bit of land is turning into a house of opportunities as the state’s GDP is under a consistent growth.
The range of industries in Ahmedabad offers options for all specializations of MBA.
Many PGDM college in Ahmedabad add  value to courses through programs to transform personalities and equip  students with the relevant confrontations to their thoughts and communicate them in front others.
From information technology, productions, logistics and entrepreneurship to every detailed area of business, Ahmedabad gives more options to the students as per their interest.
Business acumen of this capital city of Gujarat can be ascertained from the fact that entrepreneurs from this state own thousands of successful hotels and motels, they do multi-dollar diamond export business. Entrepreneurship is encouraged here and MBA colleges work around building best entrepreneurs.
Therefore, if you are considering Ahmedabad for your Management course, you have nothing to lose in this economically and socially viable state.
Here is a list of top MBA colleges in Ahmedabad city for your exploration.
The list can be exhaustive, but there are a few factors to consider in order to evaluate a suitable MBA college for you.
Begin with checking your eligibility in the desired MBA institute, in terms of entrance exam accepted by them and the cut-off percentage for entry. Then distinguish, among which of these MBA program aligns with your goals?
Look at the accreditation for the MBA Program
Calculate the total amount of fee that will be spent during the course-time
Research a bit about the average salary and who are the top recruiters during the placement drives
Dive deep into the experiences and qualifications of the faculty of the college
Since the network really matters for a successful MBA and career, find out more about the alumni base and global network of its old students.
Last but not the least, are the infrastructure and facilities. A good ambience always leads to better learning.
There may be many other important things to consider like location, specialisation etc. that may influence your decision but answers to the above will surely help you come up with a plan that suits your skills, academic talents, and career goals.
Types of MBA Programs in India
List of MBA Specializations
Upcoming Top MBA Entrance Exams
--- https://mbaroi.in/mba-colleges-by-location/mba-colleges-in-bangalore/
Introducation
Bangalore is a place of excellent learning experience and great job opportunities. Called as the ‘Silicon Valley of India’, this is a good choice for MBA education. Bangalore attracts a lot of MBA aspirants for its top MBA colleges and quality management education. Here are a few compelling arguments in favour of Bangalore for management studies.
Bangalore tops the charts from among the best cities like Pune, Mumbai, Chennai and Delhi making it a paramount city of interest to MBA aspirants, according to a report by The Economic Times
The city’s cosmopolitan status makes it a good place for studying consumer behaviour and business for MBA students.
It is home to the premium B-Schools like IIM Bangalore, Christ University NMIMS, Amrita School of Business, Bengaluru and more. Its abundant business and management courses suits the need of every management aspirant.
Access to superior quality faculty, who are well qualified for guest lectures, procures the students with better opportunity for industry visits and better learning of business.
The end number of IT hubs in Bangalore, opens up more avenues to gain employment.
With more than a 100 management institutes, Bangalore offers a variety of management courses that have effective learning and industry interface at par with top IIMs.
MBA colleges in Bangalore shortlists students for admissions, who have scored percentiles ranging from 60 to 99. There are colleges that accept exam scores from CAT, XAT, to GMAT, CMAT, MAT, ATMA also.
Bangalore offers numeral fee options to pursue MBA. Majority of management colleges here charge low to moderate fees. In fact the colleges of Bangalore University charge a very low fee when compared to the top B-Schools like IIM-B, NMIMS Bangalore, SIBM Bangalore etc.
So, we are listing down top names of Management Colleges in Bangalore below, to help you know more about them and their suitability.
The list is a rundown of a few good B-schools in Bangalore city. The competition among Business Schools is strong so you have larger opportunities to materialize your goals. These institutes are consistently exploring best infrastructures and learning inputs to keep their program relevant and on the top. Weigh them from the perspectives of:
Placement performance,
Reputation,
Faculty,
Research,
Alumni,
Corporate network and
External perceptions
to choose what is important for you.
Have a broader way of thinking and know that job markets will see an upward trend as the pandemic subsides and the opportunities will be plenty. This is your chance to make a difference, so understand the alignment of your goals to the MBA program offered by each of them. Figure out application requirements of these colleges properly. Consider the overall cost of pursuing the program and asses the probabilities of attaining the admissions and later on, the placements in MBA program that you are aiming at.
Login to stay informed!
Leave your enquiries by clicking on the ‘Enquire’ tab for detailed facts about the corresponding MBA Program.
--- https://mbaroi.in/mba-colleges-by-location/mba-colleges-in-delhi/
MBA Colleges In Delhi
Delhi NCR offers excellent learning experiences with a wide range of options for the MBA degree aspirants. Placements compared to the other leading cities is higher in the National Capital, making it a preferred choice of location for MBA seekers. Delhi boasts of a few very famous B-Schools like FMS, MDI, IIFT, DMS –IIT Delhi, IMI, Fore School of Management etc. Delhi covers a total of all National Capital Region (NCR) that includes neighbouring cities like Gurugram, Ghaziabad, Noida, Greater Noida, Faridabad and more. Here is listing a few important reasons for Delhi being a preferred location for MBA education.
Delhi is one among the top MBA destinations of India due to the gateway it offers in regard to job and entrepreneurial opportunities.
Delhi makes a good choice for MBA education, due to the affordable fee structure and a great return on investment it offers to the MBA graduates.
Delhi, being an important commercial hub of the country, has a high demand of professionals in many domains. Many leading MNCs, Fortune 500 companies and corporates have headquarters and base camps in and around Delhi. Organisations, big or small, private or government, keep hiring MBA degree holders of various MBA specialisations.
The list of companies hiring from the Delhi MBA campuses is exhaustive. Accenture, Airtel, Amway, Amazon, American Express, Asian Paint, Axis Bank, BMW, Deloitte, MakeMyTrip, Hero, Absolut Data, Adobe, Agro Tech, Amazon.com, Aricent, Cognizant, Ernst & Young, Fidelity, Honeywell, HSBC, ICICI, Infosys, PricewaterhouseCoopers are all just a few big names that hire MBA students from the B-Schools in Delhi.
Delhi offers all sorts of MBA specialisations ranging from Sales and Finance to Healthcare, Entrepreneurship and more. In Delhi, specializations of various domains like Data Science & Analytics, Business Analytics, Digital Finance, Marketing, Human Resource etc. empowers MBAs to succeed as the environments are highly competitive and complex. The resources like lectures, industry expert sessions, projects, case studies and real-world scenarios in this forward-looking capital city are additional.
Top MBA schools in Delhi/NCR accept scores of both national and state level entrance tests. This include CAT, MAT, CMAT, XAT, GMAT, IIFT, ATMA, NMAT and more.
Breaking up of MBA colleges in wake of the fee structure also indicates that doing MBA from Delhi/NCR ranges from Rs. 1-10 lakh which is a moderate price to pay for an MBA course.
Here is a list of MBA schools in Delhi and NCR Region for you to choose from. Click on the adjacent ‘Enquire’ and ‘Apply’ tabs for a detailed discussion about the MBA College of your choice.
The above list is a useful tool for those who want to pursue MBA. The information you gather can help you determine whether the business school will help you accomplish your career goals? Therefore, define your must-haves. Make a list of student-to-faculty ratio, location, average starting salaries, extracurricular etc., whatever is important to you. Set strong priorities and rule out the colleges that are not right for you.
Prepare a list of top 10 B-schools that may be relevant to your aspirations. Rank these based on your choices and personal metrics. Reach out to alums and current students to know what difference in opinions they have. They will have a less biased viewpoint than what you have seen on internet and brochures. Being able to speak to campus staff members, especially from the career services department, can be crucial to your decision making. Additionally, take a tour to the campus, meet faculty and students too, to have any remaining questions answered.
Program duration, number of specialisations, accreditations, course fee, scholarships, cut-offs, class size, work experience, placements, average salary etc, are few important factors that should not be undermined to arrive at a reasonable decision. Go through the above list and decide your B-School because there is a right MBA institute for every MBA aspirant!
--- https://mbaroi.in/mba-colleges-by-location/mba-colleges-in-hyderabad/
The capital city of Telangana, Hyderabad has been on a major growth path for the last two decades. It has emerged as one of the important IT hubs of India. Leading MNCs and corporates have set their base in the city. Together with IT, the pharmaceutical industry has also surfaced in a big way in Hyderabad city.
Known as the emerging cyber hub, Hyderabad possesses talent across skills.
With a large number of development centers, the city also offers top-notch management institutes with various MBA specializations. Hyderabad figures as a second preferred city after Bangalore for hiring professionals in the Southern part of India. It is an epicentre for various businesses today and holds immense career opportunities for management students.
If you are in pursuit of management education in Hyderabad, here is a little insight into the management colleges in the city from various perspectives.
Hyderabad offers a wide range of options when it comes to the fee structure. An AICTE Approved PGDM fee can be as low as 4.05 lakhs in Hyderabad.
The varied nature of business and economics in Hyderabad, generates a good number of placements for the management graduates. Many MBA colleges here record 100% placements with a good salary range.
B-Schools in Hyderabad accept MBA entrance exam score cards of CAT, MAT, XAT, SNAP, GMAT, IBSAT, CMAT, ATMA and more.
MBA aspirants also have high possibilities of admissions even when their scores range between 60 to 80 percentiles.
B-Schools in Hyderabad offer a broad array of selection in specializations. Students can choose from the widely opted specializations like marketing and finance, to some lesser chosen choices like Rural Management and Health Care.
The quality of education of leading management programs in Hyderabad is excellent. Many programs offer a cutting-edge curriculum that keeps pace with Global changes and focuses more on practical applications. Students are able to grab the best internships and placements.
Students can plan to pursue MBA from the best MBA colleges. Being the fastest growing city, ROI of pursuing an MBA from Hyderabad, is higher than any other tier-2 city. School of Business, IBS-ICFAI, Institute of Management Technology are a few most preferred colleges here.
List of Top MBA Colleges In Hyderabad
Here are a few other B-Schools in Hyderabad city to pursue your MBA dream. Click on the ‘Enquire’ tab and leave your inquiries about the colleges you would like to appraise.
Therefore, it is advisable that you analyze all the parameters and take help from the above list to decide college which caters to your goals.
Get an answer to a fundamental question that, which MBA out of the above is right for you? Every MBA program has its takeaways and you should weigh them in terms of the quality of the program, it's payback time, skills you are seeking, what is your career goals, etc. Define, what your negotiable and non-negotiable requirements are. Prioritizing, helps you make informed choices. Refer to the above list and get a better sense of what choices to make?
--- https://mbaroi.in/mba-colleges-by-location/mba-colleges-in-indore/
Indore is an important city in Central India. It is the commercial capital of Madhya Pradesh and is often called mini Mumbai also. Indore city has long been the hub for textiles, manufacturing, and utensil businesses. Recently, a lot of IT start-ups are also trying to a establish base here. Many small and medium-scale industries are grounded in this city. It is also an easy link to the industrial hubs in Madhya Pradesh.
Indore is the only city in India that houses both IIM and IIT, which has helped the city to have a diverse student population. Both of them have now turned a breeding ground for entrepreneurial spirit and work together to create an employment ecosystem. Indore was chosen by the Government of India for IIM to give a stimulus to management education in the central part of India.
For your thoughts of pursuing your MBA from Indore, here are a few advocates in favour of learning management from Indore:
Placements are getting better in management colleges of Indore. Apart from IIM Indore, Jaipuria Institute of Management is showing great placement performance. Despite the pandemic, IIM Indore got the highest salary offer in 2021. Indore is noted for its trading, finance, and distribution businesses and is known to be the trading capital of Madhya Pradesh. Prominent export companies like Crompton Greaves, Gujrat Ambuja, Eicher Motors, Medicaps Ltd., etc. operate dominantly from Indore
Also Read: Best Placement MBA Colleges In India
Indore features the advantages of good industry connections. It connects well, not just within MP but with western India too. Easy associations with industries and industry experts bestow MBA College in Indore with enriched management learning.
As stated above, Indore’s potential for entrepreneurship ventures for the young graduates is much higher. The recent rise in service sectors in Indore, availability of skilled workforce, proper infrastructure, etc. are some of the appealing factors for the new businesses to set up their base here.
Indore can be represented as a hub of quality education with both the IIT and IIM positioned in the city. Even the top colleges like Symbiosis University MBA are preferred for their quality, reasonable fee, rewarding learning experience, and ROI. The MBA schools have varied specializations and accept scores from all important management entrance exams.
To check MBA colleges in Indore and get details of their ranks, fee placements, and other information, click on the ‘Enquire’ tab from the below list of MBA colleges based in Indore city.
While it is true that college reviews, college rankings, cut-offs, fees, and scholarships are some top factors that help students to make a guided decision, but it is important to search through some other information as well. Look at the programs by the B-schools to understand if the course will align with your career goals? Specializations like IT & Systems have now gained preference and embrace a wider scope according to current business scenarios.
Research well in newspapers and portals to get an insight about placements, internships, and more information about colleges. The above link gives you access to a lot of information about each of the listed MBA colleges of Indore. Go forward and find the best MBA program to fit your goals and narrow your search using our page.
New emerging specializations like Entrepreneurship, Agriculture & Food Business, and Healthcare & Hospitals also gained popularity.
--- https://mbaroi.in/mba-colleges-by-location/jaipur/rank-wise-top-mba-colleges-in-jaipur/
Rank Wise Top MBA Colleges in Jaipur - 2024
MBA Colleges By Location
Rankwise Top MBA Colleges in Jaipur
Top MBA Colleges in Jaipur - Rank Wise 2024 List
Jaipur, the pink city is known for its vibrant culture, great hospitality, and for its top-notch educational infrastructure. Especially in management education, Jaipur has become one of the most prominent places in the last couple of years. Jaipur has some of the best MBA/PGDM colleges in placements, education, research, entrepreneurship, and infrastructure. An MBA graduate from a good college or university in Jaipur has an average salary of 10 LPA. Ranking of top business schools in Jaipur is made after considering several factors such as placements, fees, ROI, infrastructure, faculty, entrepreneurship help, etc.
As per the IIRF 2024 ranking, Taxila Business School is the Best PGDM college in Jaipur.
Business Schools in Jaipur accept CAT/MAT/XAT/CMAT/SNAP/ATMA/GMAT for admission.
The average fee for an MBA in Jaipur is 1,00,000 - 2,50,000.  Some institutes have fees of more than 10 Lakhs such as Jaipuria, TAPMI Taxila and some have less than 10K such as UNIRAJ.
In total Jaipur has 90+ business schools as of 2024.
Finance, Marketing, HR, Business Analytics, Information technology, International Management, and Healthcare management are the major specializations offered by the B-schools in Jaipur.
The management industry is increasing rapidly in Jaipur so the opportunities for management students will increase in a couple of years.
Surprisingly almost all the engineering colleges of Jaipur offered the MBA/PGDM programmes.
Ranking of top business schools in Jaipur is made after taking serval factors such as placements, fees, ROI, infrastructure, faculty, startup help, etc. into consideration. Admission to the best MBA colleges of Jaipur is done on the basis of the scorecard of a few National and State-level exams like CAT, MAT, CMAT, ATMA, RMAT, etc.Along with the scorecard of these MBA entrance exams, colleges also conduct Group Discussion (GD), Personal Interview (PI) and Written Ability Test (WAT) rounds. Percentages of these exams and various rounds are deciding factors of admission of a candidate. Individual college has its own criteria for this weightage calculation. But, usually, 60-65% of weightage is given to entrance exams, 20-25% to GD, PI & WAT, and remaining to the past academic record of the candidate.
Jaipur's Top MBA Colleges Fees & Placments in 2024
After analyzing factors such as placements, alumni network, the reputation of PGDM college, research, infrastructure, and feedback from students this list of best colleges for MBA in Jaipur has been prepared. .
There are many more colleges in Jaipur which provides MBA/PGDM full time course. Here is the list of  MBA/PGDM Colleges in Jaipur.
Top 10 PGDM/MBA Colleges in Jaipur
FAQs Regarding Top B-School in Jaipur
Que.  Which college is Better for an MBA in Jaipur?
Ans.  Among all the top colleges of Jaipur, Taxila Business is a better choice for MBA.  Ranked 2nd in Rajasthan, Taxila offers a whooping highest package of 28.60 LPA and an average package of 11.50 LPA.
Que. What are the fees for an MBA in Jaipur colleges?
Ans. In Jaipur, MBA college fees start from 8K and go up to 15 Lakh. On average if someone wants to complete an MBA from a good institute with high placement then they have to do something around 7 Lakh to 10 Lakh.
Que. What is the Salary for MBA Fresher in Jaipur?
Ans. On average a MBA pass out with no prior experience can earn 5 LPA to 7 LPA in Jaipur. In coming years this number will rise as some of the top organisations are setting up their offices in Jaipur.
Que. Is Jaipur good for an MBA?
Ans. Yes, Jaipur is a great choice for an MBA degree.  It is home to some of the top MBA colleges in India such as - Taxila Business School, IFCAI, MNIT, IIHMR, Jaipuria, FMS-IRM, and more.
Que.  What are some of the top MBA Colleges in Jaipur?
Ans. Taxila Business School, Jaipuria, IFCAI, MNIT, FMS-IRM, IIHMR, TAPMI, CCS-NIAM, Amity, Manipal, JIMS and more.
--- https://mbaroi.in/mba-colleges-by-location/mba-colleges-in-mumbai/
Mumbai is the business capital of India. This supreme financial metropolis is often called a city where dreams come true. Every year, thousands of young Indians, pack their bags to Mumbai to fulfil their aims and dreams. Many prominent personalities have often vocalized how this bustling Mumbai city has given them all that they ever wanted. If you are giving a serious thought about pursuing your MBA from Mumbai, here are just a few reasons why it is a great decision.
List of Top MBA Colleges In Mumbai
Here is a list of the ‘MBA Colleges in Mumbai’. Based on some facts, the list is compiled to help prospective MBA candidates to choose the best suitable college in consistence with their needs. Click on the ‘Enquire’ button to gather more information about the college that appeals to you.
Why Mumbai is Good For MBA?
This major trading hub of India has some best of the institutes of the country that are known to impart world-class education. Although there is no IIM in Mumbai, but it houses many top of the line, affordable MBA colleges.
Mumbai is the address for the Bombay Stock Exchange, SEBI, and some world-class corporate headquarters. Mumbai is a favorite place for new investments for the business giants.  This city is the most favorable place for industries and entrepreneurship to grow. This sparks off a high employment rate, making it perfect for a successful career after graduation. With about 175 Fortune 500 companies and several start-ups, from automobiles to advertising, every important company has a unit here.
Despite the fact that Mumbai is an overcrowded city, there are accommodation options for everyone. Mumbai has an effervescent infrastructure with vibrant nightlife, chic malls, luxurious restaurants, historic places, and much more.
Importantly, it is believed to be the safest of all Indian cities and it also has organized public transport. Connectivity is a major feature of this centrally located city. Students need to shift base to Mumbai for 2 years while pursuing their MBA and the advantageous location helps you stay connected with your home city very easily. The high frequency of trains, metro, buses, taxi, auto, and flights, gives you ample options to commute, within and outside Mumbai.
Social networking is an important part of an MBA course and career. Mumbai offers the best opportunities to broaden socially and get connected to influential and renowned people.  The hustle, bustle, and brim of the prestigious business schools of Mumbai teach how to make use of the latest media and advertising for career success like no other city.
MBA Colleges in Mumbai accept scores from almost all the important entrance tests of the country. Scores from CAT, NMAT, CMAT, XAT, ATMA, MHCET, GMAT are accepted by the MBA colleges in Mumbai.
How To Select an MBA College in Mumbai
If you are looking for the best MBA institutions in Mumbai, you may need to consider a few things before you embark upon your MBA journey. A prospective MBA student surely looks to make more money post MBA. Mumbai city never disappoints and offers suitable management courses for every situation. Mumbai offers MBA courses that:
Are cost-effective
Have a better doorway to the global network
Instills entrepreneurial spirit
Helps develop an individual’s personality
Can expand one’s professional footprints
Offer part-time and short-term executive courses
Since choosing the best B-School is an important step, research your way well with the above list of colleges in Mumbai.  While listing down the best among all the MBA institutes, start with finding an answer to one central question that which MBA program is right for you?
The answer can be sought through these questions:
What your career goals are,
What are your graduation level scores,
What are the key takeaways of each program,
What is the payback time of the MBA course that you chose,
What skills you are trying to find based on your personality and
What is the total cost of getting the MBA degree/diploma
The institute from where you would take your degree/diploma has a major impact on your career. It takes just a little research to find out what MBA schools are demonstrating, and how strategical are their abilities to transform their students’ careers. Selecting not just the college, but understanding what specialization works for you the best, is also an important choice to make. Your preference for the specialization you take up is also one important factor that decides your MBA College.
The latest of these management institutes are just not ahead in terms of infrastructure, but they also offer multiple specializations and courses that are crisp and sharp for managerial programs. Remember, that there is a perfect MBA course for every MBA aspirant and it may vary from one person to another.
--- https://mbaroi.in/mba-colleges-by-location/mba-colleges-in-pune/
MBA admissions in Pune are based on some popular MBA entrance exams  like MAT, CAT, ATMA, GMAT, XAT, NMAT, SNAP   and State CET. Candidates are given admission based on the scores of these entrance exams but a few universities have their own entrance exams. The admission process is completed after the candidate cracks the WAT-GD-PI   tests (Written Ability Test, Group Discussion, Personal Interview) in the second phase and secures a seat.
Most MBA colleges in Pune give Fees Scholarships to encourage the talent and promote the value of past academic records. They have varying fee structures that may range from low to high depending on many factors.
Enquiry for MBA Colleges in Pune
Some popular MBA institutes in Pune are Symbiosis, International School of Business & Media, Flame University, National Institute Academy etc. It is the education hub of the west and is the second largest city in Maharashtra, after Mumbai. It is home to Symbiosis International University and there are hundreds of other colleges and universities offering higher education.
Here is a list of ‘MBA colleges in Pune’ that offer a good learning experience and enormous industry experience for an upright career prospect. It is often called as the Oxford of the East, because there are many educational institutions here.
List of Top MBA Colleges In Pune
Pune  gained a reputation as a hub of training, education and management. The students, who switch to Pune for education, have better options for cheaper rents and healthier cost of living, as compared to the rest of the important cities of India. Pune is a safer place to live too.  It is a progressive city of Maharashtra that has a blend of uptown locales and academic facilities. Many business colleges of Pune are among the BEST MBA facilities of India. It is one of the top IT locations in the country that has recorded a good growth in last 20 years. It has a very high student density due to well-equipped management institutes.
Pune University is one of the renowned Universities of India. Many good colleges are affiliated to Pune University. Pune houses many prestigious business schools that provide quality education and the education is imparted by highly qualified teaching staff. This is an important center in India for management education. Many Management Institutes give international quality education and are known for their recognized degrees and courses like BA in business management and PGDBM diplomas.
India is the fastest growing economy and it needs to empower its manpower with competencies to take complex decisions, explore business operations and assess competitive forces. Indian B-schools deal with such expectations and formulate their programs to work around these parameters. Pune is one of India’s leading cities that started to prosper after the 1960s and flourished to what it is today.
Unwavering businesses like the Tata’s and Bajaj’s have their manufacturing divisions in Pune. As the privatization took off, automobile manufacturers from across the world came to Pune. Privatization also boosted the education sector here. When the economy of Pune unfolded, the need for professional and managerial staff also increased. This called for more MBA and other training institutes. Employment opportunities increased, and many students from surrounding parts of the country preferred to come to Pune city.
Favorable weather and good proximity to Pune (by rail, road and air) further attracts students to take up higher studies from the city. In the meanwhile, many foreign companies have established their operational base in Pune. There is huge demand for consultants, especially in finance. Pune is a great choice for MBA aspirants. MBA colleges in Pune have multifarious specializations to offer e.g. retail, financial services, health, banking, manufacturing, consulting and ITES etc. There are good placement opportunities for students in Pune as the average pay-scale, for entry-level starts at 3-4 LPA and may go up to 12-17 LPA in some colleges.
Pune is a metropolitan economy with 6th highest per capita income in India. Pune city’s major economic activities are invested into education, Information Technology and manufacturing sectors. Kirloskar brothers, Bajaj Auto, Mahindra and Mahindra, Tata Motors, Kinetic Motors are situated in Pune. Pune has Serum Institute of India; Serum is the 5th largest vaccine producer in the world.
A right source and institution is helpful in long run, to achieve success in career and life. Many factors need to be considered in finding the best MBA institute in Pune. Consider a few things before you settle down for a B-School.
The objective behind the qualification
Course Duration
Placement cell and campus interviews
Rank of the college
Record Years of the college and its reputation
Faculty members and their experiences
Make a well-informed choice for a bright career and be confident of the institute that you are joining. Choose a B-school with a constructive appraisal, good ranking and school establishment period; this will give you a great platform to pursue your future dreams.
--- https://mbaroi.in/#
--- https://mbaroi.in/mba-colleges-by-location/zone-wise/east/
East Zone of India boasts of some great academic institutes of global repute e.g. IIM Calcutta and Xavier Labour Relations Institute etc. This is a land of Nobel Prize-winners that offers quality education along with campus placements from top tech companies. Eastern India encompasses eight North-Eastern states viz. Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Sikkim, and Tripura; along with West Bengal, Bihar, Jharkhand, and Orissa.
The first full-time MBA was launched from eastern India, by IISWBM (Indian Institute of Social Welfare and Business Management), in 1954. Also, XLRI Jamshedpur started offering short-term programs during 1949 which actually picked speed much later.
The Master of Business Administration is a popular degree and many management institutes, in the East Zone offer valuable management courses that are recognized across the country. With qualifying marks from the management aptitude tests like CAT/MAT/XAT/GMAT, the candidates can enter the selection process for admission in the various MBA institutes and colleges. Eastern India, is abundant in the supply of medicinal plants and organic farm produce. The Business management courses, offering them marketing and logistical strategy of these supply chains and tourism can be of great benefit to the MBA aspirants who would seek employment around this region.
When discussing the B-schools in East India, most people are aware of only the popularity of IIM Kolkata and a few other government colleges. Here is a list of a few other MBA colleges in the region.
Department of Business Administration, Assam University,Silchar
Indian Institute of Management, Ranchi
Indian School of Mines, Dhanbad
North Eastern Regional Institute of Science and Technology, Nirjuli
Rajiv Gandhi Indian Institute of Management, Shillong
Birla Institute of Technology, Ranchi
Department of Business Administration, Tezpur University, Tezpur
Institute of Science and Management, Ranchi
Xavier Institute of Social Service, Ranchi
XLRI, Raipur
XLRI, Jamshedpur
XLRI,Bhubaneshwar
IISWBM,Kolkata
National Institute of Durgapur,Durgapur
Indian Institute of Management, Kolkata
Indian Institute of Social Welfare and Business Management, Kolkata
National Institute of Technology, Rourkela
National Institute of Technology, Durgapur
Vinod Gupta School of Management, Indian Institute of Technology, Kharagpur
Army Institute of Management, Kolkata
Centre for Management Studies, JIS College of Engineering, Kalyani
Centre For Management Studies, Orissa Engineering College, Bhubaneswar
Heritage Business School, Kolkata
ICFAI University, Tripura
Institute of Management Study, Kolkata
Institute of Professional Studies & Research, Cuttack
Integral Institute Of Advanced Management (IIAM)
KIIT School of Management, Bhubaneswar
NSHM Knowledge Campus, Kolkata
Xavier Institute of Management 	, Bhubaneswar
International Management Institute, Bhubaneswar
Jagannath Institute of Technology & Management, Centurion University    	, Paralakhemundi
School of Management, Centurion University of Technology and Management, Odisha
When the aspirants consider East Zone for their MBA education, they should reach a verdict after considering a few fair factors.  Ranks, indeed form an integral part of judging between the good, better, and the best of the MBA colleges, but every candidate is different and may have different priorities. The above list of MBA colleges has been deduced after pondering into some important aspects of MBA courses which truly, helps the candidates infer upon a suitable and valuable MBA Institute/course.
The above-listed MBA colleges in the Eastern part of India, are the popular choices and deliver the best in terms of Academics, College perception, Alumni reviews, Placements. These are a few good marketable business colleges for MBA in East India.
Apart from the above factors, explore a little about your goals, graduation level work, takeaways from the program, MBA ROI, and skills you are seeking. An MBA chosen, based on your personality helps you go a long way in establishing a strong base for a successful management career. Hence refer to the list above for a favorable decision.
Fees of Top MBA colleges
Top Colleges in Delhi
--- https://mbaroi.in/mba-colleges-by-location/zone-wise/west/
MBA Colleges In West Zone
Towards the Western parts of India, Mumbai is the most significant city, which is also called the financial capital of India. Mumbai alone has at least 3 of the top ranked MBA colleges of India viz. SPJIMR, NMIMS School of Business Management and JBIMS - Jamnalal Bajaj Institute of Management Studies. They have constantly held their leadership in rankings for many years together. The West Zone houses, Indian Institute of Management -Ahmedabad, Symbiosis Institute of Business Management -Pune, Indian Institute of Management -Indore.
There is a sizeable section of urban population inhabitant in this highly industrialized part of the country. The main states of the Western region are Gujarat, Maharashtra, and Goa; and they have a significant focus on quality education, as students from different parts of India, prefer to come and settle around this region for its employability advantages.
IIEBM
Courses:  PGDMFees: 7.95 LLoc:-Pune Exams: CAT/XAT/MAT/CMAT/ATMA/GMAT
MITCON Institute of Management (MIMA)
Courses:  PGDMFees: 6.10 LLoc:-Pune Exams: CAT/XAT/CMAT/MAT/MHCET/ATMA
Genesis Business School
Courses: MBAFees: 4.75 LLoc:-Pune Exams:CAT, CMAT or MHCET
Shanti Business School
Courses: PGDMFees: 3.25LLoc:-Ahmedabad Exams: CAT/MAT/CMAT/ATMA/XAT
RIIM Pune
Courses: MBA, PGDMFees: 4.95 LLoc:-Pune Exams:CMAT/ MAT/ MHCET / ATMA & AMMI
Being located in the most commercially viable region of India, the management colleges of the region, consistently record the changing settings in the management field and come up with many new initiatives. IIM-Ahmedabad, the apex B Schools of the West Zone, adopts the state-of-art teaching techniques and steps for developing a management education system that is oriented for the industry. And the rest of the management institutes follow the lead to hold the technical standards in learning and placements.
The faculty is outstanding, live projects, active curriculum, collaboration, communication with industry experts give the students a hands-on experience to deliver their best, attracting the top corporates during hiring.
Other than IIM Ahmedabad, Western India is the address to many other B-schools of repute. Therefore, here is listing down a few MBA colleges in Western India, so that you could make an informed choice for your management career and goals.
SP Jain Institute of Management and Research, Mumbai
Institute of Rural Management, Anand
Narsee Monjee Institute of Management Studies, Mumbai
Symbiosis Centre for Management and Human Resource Development, Pune
Prince L.N Welingkar Institute of Management and Research, Mumbai
Nirma University, Ahmedabad
Symbiosis Institute of Operations Management, Nasik
ITM Business School, Navi Mumbai
Balaji Institute of Modern Management, Pune
Symbiosis Institute of International Business, Pune
Symbiosis Institute of Telecom Management, Pune
Symbiosis Institute of Management Studies, Pune
Bharati Vidyapeeth's Institute of Management and Entrepreneurship Development, Pune
KJ Somaiya Institute of Management Studies and Research, Mumbai
Amrut Mody School of Management, Ahmedabad
Institute of Management Technology, Nagpur
Indus Business School, Pune
MIT School of Business, Pune
National Insurance Academy, Pune
Lala Lajpat Rai Institute of Management, Mumbai
Pune Institute of Business Management, Pune
Universal Business School, Raigad
International School of Business and Media, Pune
Dr. V.N Bedekar Institute of Management Studies, Thane
Mukesh Patel Institute of Technology, Management and Engineering, Mumbai
ICFAI University, Mumbai
MET Schools of Management, Mumbai
Adani Institute of Infrastructure,Ahmedabad
A plethora of B-schools has cropped up in the last few years. Since there may be vested interests playing; and different facts, figures share advice that are poles apart. Therefore, the applicants need to be careful when selecting an MBA college. Adhere to these parameters, to help you find the right college:
Location
Alumni
Placement Record
Reputation of the College
Curriculum
College Accreditation
Career Plans
Right Course
MBA costs a lot in terms of time and money, hence reflect upon the above parameters to be in a right place. Pursuing an MBA has a promising future and the right choice gets you additionally acquainted with the enterprise standards.
--- https://mbaroi.in/mba-colleges-by-location/zone-wise/north/
North India’s covers some of the Best B-Schools in India. IIMs, IIT, IIFT, FMS, MDI, IMT, BIMTECH, JGBS, IMS, and many such reputed institutes of repute are positioned in the Northern parts of India. These are few of the very highly regarded B-Schools of India, both by the management experts and recruiters.
Having consolidated some of the important cities of the country that are economically competent and resourceful, north of India promises to solve the challenge of solving employability for thousands of students. The MBA graduates receive job offers with less difficulties in these cities, through campus interviews and bigger institutions. The salary range also is greater to convince young aspirants. This makes an MBA from Northern India, that a business degree at a perfect recipe for a high paying management career.
Courses: MBA, PGDMFees: 8.50 LLoc:- Jaipur Exams: MAT, XAT, CAT etc.
I Business Institute
Courses:  PGDMFees: 7.95 L Loc:-Greater Noida Exams: CAT/XAT/CMAT/MAT/GMAT
Vishveshwarya Group of Institutions (VGI)
Courses:  PGDM,MBAFees: 2.11 L Loc:-Greater Noida  Exams:Joint Entrance ExamVGI Entrance Test
Poddar Business School
Courses:  PGDMFees:5.50 L Loc:-Jaipur Exams: CAT, MAT, CMAT, XAT
Greater Noida Institute of Management Studies (GIMS)
Courses:  PGDM,MBAFees:  5.76 L , 2.76 L Loc:-Greater Noida  Exams:CAT/XAT/CMAT/ATMA/
MAT/GMAT/UPCET
North Indian B-Schools offer excellent learning experience and high placements when compared to other parts of India. With Delhi being a prominent education hub of North and with the unique status of being the capital, the closeness to best MBA colleges in North India makes it even more profitable for the aspirants.
North India is steadily witnessing the rise of new MBA colleges and specialized MBA courses standing in line with the top MBA colleges in business. North India boasts of more than 200 MBA colleges. Here is a brief list of some well-known B-schools located in North India.
Indian Institute of Technology Delhi, New Delhi
Indian Institute of Management Lucknow
Management Development Institute, Gurugram
Indian Institute of Technology Roorkee
Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur
Indian Institute of Management Udaipur
Indian Institute of Foreign Trade, New Delhi
International Management Institute, New Delhi
Amity University, Gautam Budh Nagar
Indian Institute of Management Kashipur
Jamia Millia Islamia, New Delhi
Lovely Professional University, Phagwara
Institute of Management Technology, Ghaziabad
BML Munjal University, Gurgaon
Thapar Institute of Engineering and Technology, Patiala
Fore School of Management, New Delhi
Birla Institute of Management Technology, Greater Noida
Chandigarh University, Mohali
University of Petroleum and Energy Studies, Dehradun
Banaras Hindu University, Varanasi
Aligarh Muslim University, Aligarh
Guru Gobind Singh Indraprastha University
Chitkara University, Rajpura
Jaipuria Institute of Management, Noida
Graphic Era University, Dehradun
Indian Institute of Management, Amritsar
Jaipuria Institute of Management, Lucknow
Jagan Institute of Management Studies, Delhi
IIHMR University, Jaipur
Jaipuria Institute of Management
Babasheb Bhimrao Ambedkar University, Lucknow
Dayalbagh Educational Institute, Agra
Galgotias University, Gautam Budh Nagar
Indian Institute of Management Jammu (IIMJ), Jammu
Indian Institute of Management Amritsar
Indian Institute of Management Sirmaur
Jagannath International Management School, Delhi
Lal Bahadur Shastri Institute of Management, Delhi
Manipal University Jaipur
New Delhi Institute Of Management, Delhi
Shoolini University of Biotechnology and Management Sciences, Solan
Shri Mata Vaishno Devi University, Katra
University of Jammu, Jammu
YMCA University of Science & Tech (Formerly YMCA Institute of Engineering), Faridabad
Bharati Vidyapeeth Deemed University Institute of Management and Research, New Delhi
University School of Management Studies, GGS IP University, Delhi
Sam Higginbottom Institute of Agriculture Technology and Science, Allahabad
Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Petroleum Technology Amethi
GL Bajaj Institute of Technology and Management, Greater Noida
Directorate of Distance Education, LPU, Jalandhar
Chitkara Business School, Patiala
National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research SAS Nagar
CT University, Ludhiana
Punjab Agricultural University, Ludhiana
LM Thapar School of Management, Thapar Institute of Engineering and Technology, Dera Bassi
Dr B R Ambedkar National Institute of Technology Jalandhar
Islamic University of Science and Technology, Pulwama
University of Kashmir, Srinagar
TAPMI School of Business, Manipal University, Jaipur
Malaviya National Institute of Technology Jaipur
Banasthali Vidyapith, Banasthali
Birla Institute of Technology and Science, Pilani
Himachal Pradesh University Business School, Shimla
National Institute of Technology Hamirpur
Baddi University of Emerging Sciences and Technology, Baddi
Central University of Himachal Pradesh, Dharamshala
With so many number of worthy and respectable colleges, confusion among the students regarding which B-School to opt for, is understandable. Therefore, make a decision wisely and do not fall prey to false advertisements. Refer to some respectable rankings to refer to some authentic surveys for Ranking for top B-Schools.
Know the ins-and-outs of the MBA colleges by establishing a intelligible basis for comparing B-schools of North India. First is the college perception or the reputation of the B-school amongst educational circles and various recruiters. Secondly, the alumni reviews help measure the performance of students who graduated from the college. Thirdly, the academic plan needs to be in conformity with industry-oriented learning and concepts. Most of all, placements are a very important deciding factor. The placement cell’s performance provides an overall assessment of quality of placements in general.
From the above list, go through the selection criteria of each college. Every college has a different selection process but most of them except scores from the leading MBA entrance tests like CAT, MAT, XAT, NMAT, SNAP etc.
--- https://mbaroi.in/mba-colleges-by-location/zone-wise/south/
MBA Colleges In South Zone
MBA education in the Southern States of India is gaining new benchmarks. Government initiatives, public/private partnerships in educational sector have been scaling recently, equipping the students with requisite management skills for fostering their career growth.
With all the cultural twist in the south Indian states, there has been a dramatic rise of MBA colleges in the past few years. From being known to be a mainstay for engineering education, South India is now also known as home to a large number of management institutions. The rise has been remarkable and many aspirants comfortably move to South to complete their Masters in Management.
The past few decades have witnessed an extraordinary rise in MBA institutes. A lot of this demand has also increased from the fact that an MBA degree and an engineering graduation have been making good careers. This obsession in the Southern parts of India is mostly fed by engineers. Many engineering graduates choose to do MBA as their career building step for the best deals in terms of placements.
States like Telangana, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, and Puducherry have performed well when compared to the other states with respect to higher education. After Bangalore, Hyderabad, Cochin and other parts in southern India have emerged as new IT hubs, increasing employability. Career readiness in this region has also increased for MBA graduates.
Indus Business Academy
Courses:  PGDMFees: 8.60 LLoc:-Bengaluru,Karnataka  Exams: CAT, MAT, CMAT, XAT
Siva Sivani Institute of Management (SSIM)
Courses:  PGDMFees:  6.60 L Loc:-Hyderabad  Exams:CAT, MAT, ATMA, XAT GMAT, CMAT, TSICET
As the start-up culture prevails, and the venture capitalists show more interest in new businesses and start-ups; there is rise of unthinkable employment opportunities. The metropolitan city, Chennai has always been a virtuous place for better job prospects, consequently there is a great improvement in the outlook of MBA aspirants towards Top B-schools of South India.
Being the new league of management schools, these Business Schools are known for modern curriculum, rational balance of theoretical and practical experiences along with impressive placements.
If you have been looking for MBA colleges in South India, here is a list of some of the leading management colleges.
Indian School of Business (ISB), Hyderabad
Indian Institute of Management,Bangalore
Indian Institute of Management ,Kozhikode
WOXSEN School of Business, Hyderabad
National Institute of Technology Tiruchirappalli
Indian Institute of Management Tiruchirappalli
T.A.PAI Management Institute (TAPMI), Manipal
IFIM Business School/Jagdish Sheth School of Management, Bengaluru
Institute of Management Technology (IMT), Hyderabad
Loyola Institute of Business Administration (LIBA), Chennai
VIT Business School, Vellore
Amrita School of Business, Coimbatore
Institute of Public Enterprise, Hyderabad
Bharath Institute of Higher Education And Research (BIHER), Chennai
ICFAI Business School (IBS), Hyderabad
Dr. MGR Educational And Research Institute, Chennai
AIMS Institute, Bengaluru
SDM Institute For Management Development (SDMIMD), Mysuru
Manipal Institute of Management/ Manipal University, Manipal
Meenakshi Academy of Higher Education And Research (MAHER), Chennai
ABBS School of Management, Bengaluru
REVA University (School of Management Studies), Bengaluru
PES University, Bengaluru
Justice KS Hegde Institute of Management, NITTE/Udupi
Symbiosis Institute of Business Management, Bengaluru
RV Institute of Management, Bengaluru
Vidyavardhaka College of Engineering (Dept. of Management), Mysuru
Xavier Institute of Management & Enterpreneurship (XIME), Bengaluru
GIBS Business School, Bengaluru
Bharathidasan Institute of Management, Tiruchirappalli
CMR Institute of Management Studies, Bengaluru
SCMS Cochin School of Business, Kochi
CHRIST University, Institute of Management, Bengaluru
SDM PG Centre For Management Studies And Research, Mangaluru
Global Business School And Research Centre, Bengaluru
Rajagiri Centre For Business Studies, Kochi
MYRA School of Business, Mysuru
Presidency University, Bengaluru
Dayananda Sagar University (School of Commerce & Management), Bengaluru
KLE Technological University (School of Management Studies And Research), Hubli
Indus Business Academy, Bengaluru
Symbiosis Institute of Business Management, Hyderabad
St. Joseph’s Institute of Management, Bengaluru
KLS Institute of Management Education And Research, Belgaum
JSS Centre For Management Studies, Mysuru
PSG Institute of Management, Coimbatore
Ramaiah Institute of Management Studies, Bengaluru
Gitam School of International Business, Visakhapatnam
Siva Sivani Institute of Management, Hyderabad
Hindustan Institute of Technology, Coimbatore
Anna University, Chennai
International School of Management Excellence (ISME), Bengaluru
Hindustan College of Arts And Science (Department of Management Studies), Coimbatore
Koneru Lakshmaiah Education Foundation University (K L College of Engineering), Vaddeswaram
Alliance University, Bengaluru
Institute of Public Enterpris, Hyderabad
University of Hyderabad, Hyderabad
Visvesvaraya Technological University, Belgaum
Thiagarajar School of Management, Thirupparankundram
Sri Sathya Sai Institute of Higher Learning, Prasanthi Nilayam
SRM University, Chennai
Acharya Institute of Management and Sciences, Bangalore
DC School of Management and Technology, Pullikkanam
The admissions to these B-Schools are based on the candidates’ scorecards from NMAT, CAT, CMAT, and MAT tests etc. and either entrance tests. The above list of Business schools are best with respect to catering to the students’ educational needs in the contemporary setting. They are assisting in rendering quality education by giving a course to their brilliant minds.
--- https://mbaroi.in/international-mba-colleges/
Top International MBA colleges
Global MBA Colleges Rankings
A Master of Business Administration(MBA) is a globally acclaimed degree that opens up many opportunities for work. On average MBA graduates from a decent institute earn around 50000 US dollars. Not only in monetary terms, but a management degree also developed n number of skills in a person which they required to reach new heights. Globally many colleges and institutes offered management degrees but only few of them are able to make a place in elite list of top MBA colleges in world. Business schools are ranked on the basis of a detailed analysis of factors like degree reputation, infrastructure, placements, faculty, and overall skill development. Let me know about the global MBA rankings in detail.
Management Institute ranking offered a detailed comparison between various business schools. It portrays an image of the academics, experience, network, and results of an MBA college. Rankings are variable and kept on changing every year based on the performance of the educational institute in the previous academic year. Indian management Colleges like IIM Ahemdabad and Indian Business School have managed to secure a place in this renowned list of MBA colleges.
Check List of Best MBA Colleges in World
Many popular magazines released the MBA rankings globally some of them are Forbes, Financial Times. Economics Times, fortune, and many more.  Here below-mentioned ranking of global MBA colleges is made up after an in-depth analysis of colleges' overall performance throughout the years and the steps taken by them to take the management education to next level. These rankings do not guarantee success or superior education but are made up only based on information.
World's Best MBA Colleges
Created by experts of ‘MBAROI’ magazine, the above list of Top Colleges for MBA in world is a summation of some
concrete answers that B-school applicants look for. This world's best MBA Colleges list takes into account some very compelling factors for framing this gradient. These are:
Placement Performance in Recent years
Teaching and learning Resources Quality
Research and Publications
Overall Skill Development of Studnets
Brand Image of Institute
Ease of Applying
Admission Proess
Return on Investment
As we all know different people have different priorities and requirements based on the rank or definition of the best global management institute is different for every person. Here are some key aspects that every MBA aspirant should take care of before applying for an institute.
Gain complete information about the admission process and the requirements of the institute.
Evaluate yourself and find out the best MBA program for yourself which align with your professional vision.
Costing is one of the key factors and being expensive does not mean the right or superior education does research on your requirement. After knowing the requirements consider your spending capacity and choose a college.
Since MBA for an international college is a costly investment so always look for the past placement record of college and career opportunities offered to previous students.
The fight of claiming a place in the top business school rankings has become intense and getting more interesting each year. It may be quite stressful for the institute but from the student's point of view, this fight for the best is offering better education and better opportunities. Institutes are working towards the modernization of education and opening new dimensions for students. These new innovations make education more evolving and craft the some of finest entrepreneurs, businessmen, and professionals.
admissions 2022 . The job markets are perceived to be booming in immediate years and
Eligibility Crirtiea for Studying in Best MBA Colleges world wide
Applicants have to pass an English proficiency exam such as IELTS, TOEFL, and many more (as per the university requirement.)
GMAT is required for admission in management institutes globally but few colleges also accept the GRE result.
For any Post graduation program, a student has to earn a bachelor's degree and MBA is no different (Many universities have a minimum marks policy).
Work Experience is not necessarily needed but it improves the chances of getting selection during the MBA admission interview.
Study Visa, Passport, Resume, transcripts.
Most Importantly the motive of pursuing an MBA degree.
--- https://mbaroi.in/blog/
MBA in Technology Management: A Complete Guide for 2025
When Is the Right Time to Pursue an MBA?
20 AI Prompts You Will Need To Know As Manager
Is managing a team an easy task? No, right! But can it be made effortless? Sure! With the rise of advanced technology, everything has become kind of simple than before so why not use tech to make a manager’s life smooth? This blog will cover …
Career Options After an MBA in Marketing
An MBA in marketing has thrown the doors wide open for straight and dynamic careers. They are significant contributors to a brand, focusing on how a brand communicates its identity, interacts with customers, and develops a foundation for business prosperity. As businesses become more customers …
MBA Career Switcher: How an MBA Can Transform Your Career in 2025
Another post-pandemic demand has grown in the form of MBA career switchers with prospective targets. These can include individuals interested in jobs that have coincidentally either been taken over by some new MBA-enabled fads or types of jobs whose barometers have changed, and thus along …
How to Finance Your MBA – MBA Admission Guide
Career acceleration is the purpose of an MBA. But it comes with a price tag. The average cost for an MBA in India is about ₹8-25 lakh, while an overseas degree will cost upwards of $100,000. Financing your MBA is almost important, and here are …
CMAT 2025 Answer Key Released: Check and Raise Objections
The National Testing Agency (NTA) has released the official provisional answer key of the Common Management Admission Test (CMAT) 2025. The candidates who had appeared in the examination may now download the answer key and the response sheet from the official website, which will help …
Top Tier 1 MBA Colleges in India 2025- Placement and More
India hosts a number of well-known MBA schools that are very strong in the Tier 1 category, such as some of the best business colleges in the world. They distinguish themselves for having the best scholarship programs, top placements, and the kind of strong network …
XAT 2025 Results Announced: The Road to Your Dream B-School
The much-awaited moment is here! The XAT 2025 results are officially out, marking an exciting milestone for MBA aspirants across the country. With this announcement, the process of choosing the top-notch business schools that give aspiring managers a ticket to success advances exponentially. The next …
The much-awaited Common Admission Test (CAT) 2024 results have been officially announced by IIM Calcutta on December 19, 2024. Candidates who appeared for the exam can now access their scorecards on the official website iimcat.ac.in. This blog provides all the essential details about the CAT …
How to Score Higher in NMAT 2024
Scoring good or higher in any exam requires you to be more attentive and disciplined. Talking about NMAT exam 2024 is a test conducted by The Graduate Management Admission Council (GMAC). This council administers the national-level Narsee Monjee Management Aptitude Test (NMAT) for admission to …
CAT 2024 Exam Analysis: Comprehensive Review and Key Takeaways
The Common Admission Test (CAT) 2024 maintained its reputation as a competitive and unpredictable exam. This year, the test presented a moderate difficulty level, with some notable changes in the pattern and question types. The overall difficulty varied across slots, with the evening slot being …
AI with Management Education
Why should management education be an exception when all industries are using Artificial intelligence (AI) for revolutionizing? Just like businesses are integrating AI in their operations, b schools are doing the same to raise future entrepreneurs, leaders, or managers. 44% of b-school programs cover AI’s role …
25 Interview Question You Need to Prepare for MBA Admissions Interview
Preparing for MBA Admissions Interview Questions? But no idea where to start!  It’s common among MBA aspirants to get confused with interview questions. Even though there are several MBA-related interview questions online and offline, it feels like a very less yet overwhelming. Let us help …
MAT 2024 Registration Closing Soon: Apply by November 30!
Planning to appear for MAT Exam 2024? It’s not too late to register. The registrations for MAT exam 2024 closing on 30th November 2024. Hurry up or else you will miss the date. Students can appear for MAT either through a Computer-Based Test (CBT), an …
Top 10 YouTube Channels for MBA Students
Do you always turn to YouTube while having your meal or anytime you do not know how to operate a new machine? We all do that! But do you know Youtube can also help you with your MBA career, that’s right! Today, we are talking …
Future Trends of Management Education
Are you a management education student or going to get admitted as an MBA? Then, you must know the future trends of management education. Just like every other field, management education is transforming and we are going to see some significant emerging trends. The recent …
--- https://mbaroi.in/IIM/
Complete Information about IIM
Indian Institutes of Management (IIMs)
The Indian Institutes of Management or IIMs are formed under the control of Ministry of Education, Government of India for postgraduate, doctoral and executive programs in business administration. This was a project initiated by Jawaharlal Nehru, the first Prime Minister of India, after the recommendations from Planning Commission of India.
Ministry of Human Resource Development (MHRD) declared the IIMs as the institutes of National importance and with this, the IIMs gained more autonomy in handling their operations. They achieved leeway to make decisions on their courses, fees etc.
IIMs like IIM Ahmedabad, IIM Bangalore and IIM Calcutta are among the top 10 management schools of India and are ranked high globally also.
PGP is the flagship programme across IIMs which is equivalent to an MBA program. After 2017, most IIMs started offering Master in Business Administration (MBA) degrees instead of diplomas. IIMs offer a two-year Post Graduate Programme in Management and one-year global MBA (EPGP, PGPEX, PGPX,PGP-BL, IPMX).
The IIMs are the top-ranked management institutes as per many rankings and surveys. They attract the highest-paying placement opportunities for its students, in the corporate and government sectors
IIMs offer the one year MBA as a full-time programme that follows the global MBA norms. A few IIMs also offer a two-year part time executive MBA for graduates who have more work experience.
IIMs only offered diplomas earlier, after IIM Act 2017 was passed, all IIMs started offering Master of Business Administration (MBA) degree.
IIM Calcutta and Ahmedabad are the oldest and were established in 1961. Between 1973 and 1996, IIM Bangalore, Lucknow, Kozhikode, Indore were added to the list. Later, during 2007 and 2016, 14 IIMs were founded and now there are total 20 IIMs in India. Here is the list of IIMs with their year of establishment:
List of IIMs
Here is the list of all 20 Indian Institutes of Management (IIMs). If the best management program is what is in your cards, then head to one of these 20 IIMs. IIMs are classified into three categories based on their year of establishment:
First generation IIMs /Old IIMs
Second generation IIMs/ New IIMs
Third generation IIMs / Baby IIMs
Programs Offered by the IIMs
The IIMs offer postgraduate, executive programmes and doctoral programmes. The courses offered are:
PGP or MBA: This is a two-year Post Graduate Programme in Management.
EPGP: The Executive Post Graduate Programme is for mid-level professionals with a few years of work experience.
IPM: Integrated Programme in Management is five-year course after class 12, offered by IIM Indore, IIM Rohtak, IIM Ranchi, IIM Bodh Gaya and IIM Jammu.
PGPX: This is a one-year post-graduate diploma programme for graduates who have work experience.
FPM: Fellow Programme in Management is a doctoral programme equivalent to a PhD globally.
Certificate Executive Programmes: IIMs also have short-duration and part-time executive education/EMBA courses.
Admission Process at IIMs
All the programs of IIMs have different admission processes. Getting selected into an Indian Institute of Management is not easy. Each year more than 2 lakh students appear for the CAT entrance exam and there are only about 5000 seats available in all the IIMs together. Admissions to Indian students are offered through a Common Admission Test (CAT) for the PGP courses. CAT is the most competitive exam of the country. International applicants can use their GMAT scores for the purpose of application for admissions in IIMs.
Success rate for admissions to IIMs is only one in two hundred. Even with the new addition of IIMs, the acceptance rate remains around 1.714%, which is very low.
The scores of CAT exams are the basis for primary short-listing of candidates for IIMs.
GMAT scores can also be used for admission to some EPGP courses, one-year programme for experienced executives. The IIM Lucknow also accepts GRE scores and IIM Kozhikode accepts CAT, GMAT, GRE, UGC and JRF exam scores as well.
For doctoral programmes, candidates are required to make presentation of their research idea or give Research Aptitude Test/RAT
The second round includes interview rounds in form of WAT/GD/PI (Written Ability Test, Group Discussions and Personal Interviews), for which the aspirants receive a call letter from the IIMs where they have scored the required cut-off marks. A candidates’ CAT scores remain valid for only 1 year.
Also Read: How To Prepare for WAT-PI for Top IIMs
Profiles of candidates in terms of past academics and professional accomplishments also form an important part of selection criteria. Some IIMs may also conduct evaluations like written assessment tests.
There is a reservation quota for Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and Other Backward Classes. Cut-off for reserved-category is lower than cut-off for general-category candidates.
IIM Fees and the Seats Available
All the IIMs had a total of 5100 plus seats in the year 2020. Below is the breakdown of the total number of seats and the fees of the 20 IIMs.
Also Read: The Breakdown of The Total Number of Seats And Fees of IIMs
IIM is an unmatched brand for management education in India. The quality of education and its ranking at the world level, makes it a dream for every MBA aspirant. The lesser number of seats make it difficult for even the candidates with good scores to get admissions into Indian Institutes of Management (IIMs). However, if one does not qualify to get admission into IIM, there are many top business schools in India that are well known globally. Consider them for admissions, but try hard for your chance of admission into an IIM. CAT is the only exam to get into IIM, so visit the official CAT website for more updates.
--- https://mbaroi.in/IIM/iim-news/
Latest Update on: CAT 2024 | CAT Exam | IIM CAP 2024 | IIM Waitlist Movement | IIM WAT 2024
IIM Latest Updates
CAT 2024 registration has been closed and  Admit card will be available from 05 November 2024.
The CAT Exam will be held on 24 November 2024  and results will be announced in the first week of January 2024.
IIMs have placed 100% of their students in 2024.
IIM Ahmedabad has witnessed the highest international package of 1.75 Crore and IIM Calcutta has the highest domestic package of 1.15 Crore.
IIMs have seen a 5% to 15% drop in the placement offered to them in 2024.
IIM Lucknow concluded its summer placement for the 2024-2026 batch, securing 576 offers. The average stipend was ₹1.43 lakh per month, with a median of ₹1.50 lakh. The highest domestic stipend reached ₹3.95 lakh, showcasing the institute's strong demand and global appeal.
IIM Indore in collaboration with Times Pro Launched  Chief Executive Offifers programme for the students.
IIM Lucknow has just released the CAT 2023 data
Date: December 26, 2023
Following are the highlights of CAT Exam 2023 Updates:
As per the CAT 2023 updates, 434 students will be competing for each and every seat in IIMs. In 2023 IIMs will be admitting appx. 7500 students against 3,50,000 total eligible applicants.
CAT 2023 was held in 156 cities at 438 test centers on Sunday 26th Nov 2023. This was conducted during the three shifts.
The time allotted per shift was 120 minutes means 2 hours and for PwD students it was 160 minutes.
The maximum time allotted for each section was 40 minutes and 53.20 minutes for PwD aspirants.
Also Read: Group Discussion Group Discussion topics Trending GD Topics
The following table represents a section-wise breakup of the number of questions.
Total 2.88 lakh candidates appeared for the exam out of 3.50 lakhs registered eligible aspirants. The overall attendance was approximately 83%.
3.50 Lakh Candidates Register for CAT 2023; Higher Than the CAT 2022
Selection Ratio: to remain 45 candidates per Seat
IIM Lucknow in their press release on 24th Sept has declared on CAT 2023 registration numbers.
CAT 2021 will be conducted on November 28, 2021 (Sunday).
The test format will remain same as last year, i.e. it will be in three shifts of 2-hour examination each, having three sections:
Verbal Ability and Reading Comprehension,
Quantitative Ability, and
Data Interpretation and Logical Reasoning
Candidates will get 40 minutes for each section, PwD candidates will get 13 minutes and 20 seconds extra for each section.
This test will be conducted at over 400 Test Centres, spread across 159 cities in India on Sunday 28 November 2021
Tutorials and mock tests to know the test format will be available on the CAT website from the last week of October 2024
Common Admission Test (CAT) is the largest MBA entrance exam, leading to admission opportunities in 150+ MBA colleges including IIMs, FMS, MDI, SPJIMR, IITs, TAXILA among others.
Also Read:-
Best CAT Coaching in India
Top 50 MBA Colleges in India
Check which career gives you the highest returns
--- https://mbaroi.in/IIM/wat-written-ability-test/
Written Ability Test
WAT FOR IIMs
Full form of WAT is: Written Ability Test.
What is WAT for IIMs?
Written Ability Test or WAT is a pen-paper-based test with a time duration of Maximum 30 minutes and is a vital part of MBA admission process at IIMs. Few other colleges Like XLRI, IIFT, TAXILA also conduct WAT or maybe case study analysis which is similar to WAT. WAT in IIMs is conducted just before the personal interview and the duration could be from 15 minutes to 30 minutes. Now, In general, most of the IIMs have stopped taking GD (group discussion) and instead take WAT during the final selection process.
IIM WAT test is expected to be conducted in the first week of January 2025, just after the release of CAT exam result.
Is WAT Necessary for IIMs?
Yes! There are 20 IIMs in total and mostly all of them take WAT. They have replaced GD with WAT for admission to MBA/PGP program. As many candidates could not express their thoughts during group discussion so their actual ability could not be evaluated, therefore WAT was introduced in the final selection process of IIMs.
In a WAT round, aspirants could freely write their views and thoughts on paper without the fear of getting interrupted.
Topics for WAT and How to prepare
The idea of conducting WAT is to know the aspirant’s critical and logical thinking so the WAT topics are selected in such a manner that aspirants can be judged on the above criteria. Maybe aspirants are required to place actual facts and figures.
Writing Ability Test (WAT) could have the topics based on:
Current affairs
Business
Political issues
Sports or
General, based on abstract topics.
As mentioned above, the topics could be of varied interest for example:
Farm Bills 2020,
Covid-19 impact,
National Education Policy (NEP),
Gig Economy,
AatmaNirbhar Bharat
Start-up Policy
Bank Recapitalization
For the top-ranked IIMs like A, B & C the WAT weightage could be to the extent of 15% while for the Baby or new IIMs this could be on the higher side to the tune of 40%
As the WAT weightage is on the higher side, only a high CAT score will not be good enough to get you into IIMs. One needs to do a lot of effort to understand the WAT and hone up the writing and thinking skills.
Preparation: Format of the Written Ability Test Round
WAT preparation typically will be an easy task if the candidate focuses on their written English. This includes,
The first 2 to 3 sentences need to be highly engaging, in fact, the evaluator will proceed further if the initial sentences are effective, interest-creating, and logical.
Initial lines act as a catch to create engagement with the evaluator and get his/her responsiveness. This will help you score better. A good introduction will make the evaluator appreciate the controversial point of the whole essay and create interest in him to read the complete essay.
Once your first 2 to 3 lines of introduction are ready, you need to create some sensation or excitement so that the evaluator remains glued to your essay. Thus, you need to ensure ‘correct sentence building’. As an author, confirm that your sentence includes a subject and a predicate. They are the essential building blocks that can shoot up your performance. An accurate sentence gives out the impression of being a professional in English and having flawlessly written skills.
Content has to be given priority on Grammar for WAT or IIMs.  But don’t use slang, incomplete phrases, long proverbs, etc. Cross-check a sentence after writing it.
Also remember, accurate grammar can help you better your essay. Keep your tenses in place, do not use too many helping verbs, try active voice more than passive voice.
KYC: Know Your Customer, Yes! Know your Question first. Then go straight to the point. Don’t beat about the bush. Write your answer in small sentences. And ensure the bonding between the sentences.
The last paragraph or lines should rationalize the core of the complete argument and information. This needs to be conclusive in nature and offer closure to the complete argument.
The WAT is very simple. This is about writing an essay inside recommended word limit, articulating your view and knowledge on the topic given. Though, the essay writing assessment, the simple it may look, is in reality hard to crack bearing in mind the ratio of aspirants and seats. One needs to make sure that the script is grammatically accurate, rich in vocabulary, driven by facts and figures, and depicts oneself as an appropriate manager of the future.
Be precise! Your answer should be between 350 to 400 words. All aspirants have to follow a common rule while framing their WAT answer. Your answer should not exceed 400 words, it should not be missing out on any fragment of a generic essay. Write down the most important points, which provide high-level insights to the evaluator.
There are three major types of WAT topics asked during the IIM selection process.
General Affairs
Persuasive
Philosophical
Generally, there are three major types of WAT topics during the IIM selection process.
Ethics and Business- Is it an ideal combination?
Is the smart cities initiative in India a failure?
Demographic dividend in India: Myth or Reality?
Challenges to higher education in India.
National Education Policy.
Will the reduced GST (Goods and Services Tax) aid in faster growth of the Indian Economy?
RTE (Right to education) - A boon or a curse?
Is linking Aadhaar with bank accounts a good idea?
Why should digital marketers care about net neutrality?
Is the stock market similar to online gambling?
Reasons for Indian economic slowdown.
Caste-based reservation is an impediment to a casteless society.
US-China Trade Talks: A political drama or renegotiation of rules of the game?
IPR for life-saving drugs should be granted or not?
How has technology changed the world of jobs?
Impact of coronavirus on the tourism industry.
Are bullet trains required in India immediately?
Should we be concerned about Global warming?
Is the banning of Pakistani actors justified?
Are indefinite stay orders rotting the essence of the Indian Judiciary?
What can be done to reduce income inequality?
Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) in the retail sector good for India- agree or disagree?
Strong leaders emerge when institutions are weak.
What is more important- Economic growth or Ecological Protection?
--- https://mbaroi.in/IIM/iim-seats-and-fees/
Total Number of Seats in IIMs 2025
In 2025, In total there are 21 IIMs in India. IIM Mumbai (Previously - National Institute of Industrial Engineering (NITIE) Mumbai) is the newest addition to the IIM list that has been added to the list in 2023.
These are categorized into three levels namely the first generation, the second generation, and the third generation, according to the year of establishment. Also, they are also referred to as old, new, and baby IIMs.
With the addition of a new IIM, the total number of seats in IIMs has increased. The total seats in IIMs are little more than 7500 as of 2025.
First Generation IIMs
Second Generation IIMs
Third Generation IIMs
IIM Fees
There has been a significant increase in IIM fees in the last couple of years. Now the Baby IIMs like IIM Nagpur, Visakhapatnam among others charge MBA fee between 13 to 19 lakhs, second generation IIMs like IIM Udaipur, Rohtak, Tiruchirappalli among others have a fee structure between 17 Lakh to 25 Lakh and top IIMs like IIM Ahmedabad, Bangalore, Calcutta have a fee structure of 25+ lakhs.
Here is a table below showing data of all IIMs with their approx. fees. These fees excluding the international immersion program, boarding charges and other misc. expenses.
--- https://mbaroi.in/IIM/iim-waitlist-movement/
IIM Waitlist Movement: Meaning & Past Trends
Every year, approx 2.50 Lakh aspirants apply for admission to PGDM/PGP/MBA programmes offered by the 20 IIMs in India. As the total number of seats in IIMs are app 7500 as on 2025, every student cannot make it to IIMs.
After declaring the first lot of selected students, 2nd batch of successful students is kept in waiting as in case any student chooses not to join, the seat is offered to the next best fit candidate.
The list of aspirants waiting for someone to vacate their seat is known as waitlist.
The movement of the students in the waitlist or IIM waitlist movement year after year keeps a curiosity among MBA aspirants at IIMs.
Although many aspirants succeed for IIMs WAT-Group Discussion/Personal Interview round and pass it too, as their composite score for final selection is less than others, they miss the final selection chance.
What is IIM selection process?
For getting into IIMs students need to pass through a rigorous selection and filtration process. Generally it is into three phases.
WAT
PI
Some IIMs may also go for Group Discussions
(Also Read:Group Discussion Topics)
On the basis of the scores, minimum IIM cut offs in the sectional percentile ranks, the overall percentile rank is selected for the next stages.
Candidates get shortlisted for WAT, GD & Personal Interview.
In the final selection stage, selection is strictly based on the shortlisting of the candidates done separately for each category (General/SC/ST/NC-OBC/PwD) based on the Final Composite Score’s (FCS).
Also Read: IIM Common Admission Process - CAP 2025
Highlights IIM Waitlist Movement 2025
There is no accurate data available on IIM waitlist. Daddysdata Analytica team has researched collected some data from varied sources on internet. We have collected information from various sources like blogs , students answering and then filtetred the information in order to serve the best data.
During 2024, IIM Calcutta was the first to declare the admission shortlist. Around 860 female aspirants were called out of total of 1990 candidates.
IIM Ahmedabad shortlist was announced on January 7, 2024 2nd day of CAT result announcement.
Approximately 1200 candidates were shortlisted by IIM Ahmedabad for the AWT & Personal Interview (PI), out of which 565 candidates for General category, 317 candidates of NC-OBC, 170 SC, 100 ST, & 48 PWD candidates.
IIMs Shortlist 2025: Seats and Expected Number of Candidates
IIMs shortlist 2025 generally will have app 10 times more candidates as compared to their number of actual seats. Below is the mention of the available seats in IIMs in 2025 along with expected number of shortlisted students for the different IIMs.
Shortlisting for CAP will be done by coordinating IIM in discussion with each participating IIMs.
The below information is on the norms and highlights of IIMs shortlists for all the top IIMs which include IIM A, IIM B, IIM C, IIM I and  others. We will keep on updating this article for the IIM shortlist 2025.
Also Read: Top 50 MBA Colleges in India
IIM Ahmedabad will release PI shortlist for PGP and PGP FABM programmes at the same time. This is released on day of CAT result or a day later after release of CAT result.
Once the IIM Ahmedabad shortlist is declared, aspirants may see their admission status by login with their CAT 2024 registration number and email ID at IIM Ahmedabad PGP admission 2025 website. Shortlisted students will have to submit online Interview Form at IIM A website before the last date as mentioned on the website.
Or the final admission IIMs the candidates are called after finishing the shortlisting process for GD-PI-WAT rounds. This is noteworthy that IIMs selection focuses more on the student quality and not just the CAT exam scores. The students profile is prepared and that plays an important role for improving diversity in the IIM classrooms.
Also Read: How an MBA aspirants should prepare for an interview?
CAT Scores: Each IIMs shortlisting criteria specify its minimum required sectional as well as overall percentile score.
Also Read: How to Get Admission in IIMs without CAT?
Academic Profile & Diversity: IIMs selection criteria gives weightage to excellent academic record till graduation. Candidates coming from Non-Engineering background are also given extra weightage. Girl aspirants are also given weightage to promote gender diversity in the IIM classrooms.
Work Experience: A supervisory experience of 2 to 3 years can get extra weightage of 5 to 10% in selection process.
Here this is worth explaining that couple of aspirants who has topped in CAT or even candidates with 99%ile may not at a call from IIM A. As the admission process focus on diversity aspirants with even 90 %ile may get a call due to their profile, academic diversity regardless of scoring low in the CAT.
IIMs Shortlist for Admissions 2025: Expected Dates:
Mentioned below are the IIMs shortlists 2025 release dates expected for PI-WAT round
Also Check:IIM Admission Predictor
2024 IIM Shortlist: Main Highlights, Short listing Criteria:
1246 candidates were shortlisted for PI-WAT round by IIM A.
CAT cut off lowered to 80.75 percentile from 83.32 for general category
For EWS category CAT cut off had gone down to 85.34 percentile from 90.75 last year
940 out of 1246 shortlisted candidates were male constituting 75% of shortlisted candidates
67% candidates were engineers in the IIMA shortlist
Following weightages were awarded in IIMA Shortlisting process. The IIMA shortlist included major achievers in diverse academic fields. These aspirants may not have scored very high CAT percentile but they were shortlisted on the basis of diverse profile despite low CAT percentile.
IIM Bangalore will release PI shortlist almost within a week after announcement of CAT exam result. Last year, IIMB shortlist was released after 11 days of CAT result on January 17, 2024. The PI-WAT round began in February and continued till second week of March. IIM Bangalore conducted the PI-WAT round in different cities like Bangalore, New Delhi, Kolkata, Mumbai and Hyderabad on different dates.
IIM B Focused more on academic profile, IIM Bangalore shortlist was prepared considering candidate’s academic performance, quality of work experience among others. CAT score was not the only point in IIM Bangalore shortlisting criteria.
The Weightage of 40 points for CAT percentile score was divided further into the performance in each of the three sections to shortlist candidates for PI round as under:
IIM Calcutta shortlist 2025 will be released around 20 days after the declaration of CAT exam result. Last year IIMC released the shortlist on January 25, 2024. IIM Calcutta has changed the title of its flagship 2 years full time management program to MBA from PGP. IIM Calcutta shortlisting criteria prescribe less weightage to CAT cut offs and greater weightage to academics
IIM Calcutta was the last among the top three IIMs to release its shortlist for PI round
IIM Calcutta conducted PI round online instead of in-person interviews
CAT Cut off was reduced to 85 percentile
CAT sectional cut off for Quantitative Ability reduced to 75 percentile for General category
For other categories also QA minimum required percentile was reduced to 65 and below
Weightage for CAT score reduced to 56% in shortlisting for PI round
Weightage for Academics and Diversity was increased to 44% in shortlisting process
15% weightage for Bachelor’s degree awarded in shortlisting
Class 10 score weightage reduced to 10% from 20% in shortlisting
Class 12 score weightage reduced to 15% from 20% in shortlisting
EWS category reservation as per GoI norms started with requirement of reduced percentile in CAT exam
IIM Lucknow will release the shortlist for PI-WAT in the third week of January 2025. Last year IIML released the shortlist on January 16, 2024. A comprehensive list of 8044 candidates shortlisted for PGP, PGP‐ABM and PGP‐SM was placed on IIM Lucknow website.
For admission 2024, programme  wise Number of candidates considered and finally shortlisted for IIM Lucknow PI WAT were as below:
*Maximum marks for diversity factor (DFa and DFb) cannot exceed 20 (for PGP-ABM Program only).
8044 candidates were shortlisted for WAT & PI Round
Candidates shortlisted for PGP, PGP-ABM and PGP-SM program 2024-23 batch in different categories could check their programme wise status
Blank cell in the shortlist as released by IIM Lucknow meant that the candidates had not qualified for the respective programme
Candidates shortlisted for WAT‐PI based on composite score cut‐offs needed to submit their WAT‐PI form online
A candidate's name was dropped for WAT‐PI if he/she failed to submit the form online within the stipulated deadline.
IIM Kozhikode will release the shortlist 2025 within 3-4 days after declaration of CAT exam result. Last year IIM Kozhikode shortlist was released on January 7, 2024 for final selection round for PGP 2024-23 batch. Candidates could check their short list status by login with CAT  registration ID and email id on IIM Kozhikode official website
Last year, IIM Kozhikode released the shortlist of candidates for PI stage on the basis of  five parameters. IIMK shortlisting criteria included - CAT score, academic scores of class X and XII and Academic & Gender diversity, work experience. There was no weightage to the academic scores after class 12.
IIMK shortlist was prepared in each category and was created based on an Aggregate Index Score (AIS). The AIS was computed based on the performance in CAT , Class X and XII marks and diversity. The weight of each component in the AIS was as follows:
Registration for Stage 2 shortlist was required. The process was closed in a week’s time after release date
Only those candidates who had successfully completed the online registration process for IIM Kozhikode were considered for Stage 2
IIM Indore shortlist 2025 will be released in the third week of January 2025. Last year also IIM Indore released the shortlist on January 18, 2024. Final selection process began in February.
IIM Indore will shortlist the candidates for WAT & PI stage on the basis of composite scores which are arrived at by accounting for the academic profile also. The Composite Score therefore is calculated on the basis of CAT score, academic scores, and gender diversity. There is no weightage to the academic scores beyond class 12. Candidates scoring percentage of marks above 85 gets a good weightage in the computation of composite scores. Last year shortlisting criteria as applied by IIM Indore was:
* Composite Score = Sum of the above scores (Max 100) is the formula to arrive at the maximum score to check whether you would be shortlisted by IIM Indore after CAT result is announced.  Please note that  Zcandidate, Zmin, Zmax for 10th and 12th Standard are computed using the normalisation process.
IIM Rohtak will release shortlist 2025 in the last week of January 2025. It will conduct Online PI Round. You could check your short list status by login with CAT registration ID and your email id on IIM Rohtak official website. IIM Rohtak shortlist is prepared for each category of the candidates.
IIM Rohtak shortlist of candidates for Online PI stage is based on overall CAT percentile score. Last year IIM Rohtak did not announce any sectional cut off requirement in shortlisting process.
NA=Not Announced in IIM Rohtak Admission Policy 2024
Candidate needed to submit an application/ admission data form along with registration fee of Rs. 2000/- by January 21
The candidates, who submitted the application forms and registration fees by the stipulated date and time, were considered and invited (as per merit) for the Online Personal Interview (PI)
Shortlisted candidates received an email with a web-link for online registration in PGP  batch. Candidates needed to create their Login ID (USER NAME & PASSWORD for online registration.
Top IIMs Shortlist: Many 99 Percentilers are not in IIMs Shortlists
CAP is common Admission Process and is done for nine new IIMs for MBA admission.
This Common Admission Process (CAP) 2025 will be conducted for
IIM Bodh Gaya
IIM Jammu
IIM Kashipur
IIM Raipur
IIM Ranchi
IIM Sambalpur
IIM Trichy
Common WAT (Depends upon the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic situation and Govt. guidelines)
PI round for these nine IIMs and will be conducted as final selection round from February to March 2025 in three phases.
During 2024 IIM Raipur conducted Common Admission Process. This year some other baby IIM may conduct CAP.
IIM Rohtak will not be participating in CAP 22 will release its shortlist for PI round independently.
IIMs Shortlist 2025: Baby IIMs Shortlist based on Two Different Cut offs
The 7 new IIMs, irrespective of the fact, whether they are taking part in CAP 2025 or are conducting independent PI round will ask the aspirants to apply and reconfirm their interest for admission in them by a fixed date before considering their candidature for the final admission. The release dates for all the baby IIMs shortlist 2025 will be declared in March 2025.
Two Admission Chances for CAP Participating Baby IIMs
Out of the four CAP 2025 participating baby IIMs - IIM Bodhgaya, IIM Jammu, IIM Sambalpur, IIM Sirmaur, the two –IIM Bodh Gaya and IIM Jammu have different shortlisting criteria for CAP and for their own selection round.
Higher cut offs are announced for the CAP round and lower cut offs are announced for their own selection process after CAP is over. These IIMs have clarified that the Candidates who have not received call from CAP will receive separate communication from these IIMs based on their respective shortlist criteria given in their admission policy. Key difference between CAP shortlisting cut off and own admission shortlisting cut off was as under last year:
IIM Nagpur, IIM Visakhapatnam, IIM Amritsar do not participate in CAP. They announce dates and schedule for their shortlisting process separately.
IIM Bodhgaya will participate in CAP 2025 as it did last year. IIM Bodh Gaya will release the shortlist for PI round with a different cut off for CAP and for its own selection round which will be conducted after CAP is over.
The minimum cut-offs of CAT percentile required in each section and overall percentile for shortlisting candidates for personal interview are common for all the participating 9 IIMs. The shortlisting criteria was changed further for all the CAP participating IIMs last year, as under:
Last year IIM Bodhgaya released actual CAT percentile cut offs for all categories in shortlisting process for MBA admission:
Source: IIM Bodhgaya Shortlisting Criteria 2024
With a view to improve Gender Diversity, IIM Bodhgaya applied the following cut offs in shortlisting the female candidates for CAP round. The female candidates who were shortlisted due to these cut-offs were considered for supernumerary seats only
While the shortlisting criteria for CAP was common for all the participating IIMs at 93 percentile, the key changes in IIM Bodhgaya minimum cut offs and admission criteria were as below
CAT Cut off was kept at 90 percentile
CAT sectional cut off reduced to 70 percentile
Cut off for the female applicants reduced to 87 percentile for final admission
2% Weightage Awarded to female candidates
EWS category reservation as per GoI norms has started
Candidates could check their shortlist status by login at IIM Bodh Gaya Shortlist at admission.iimbg.ac.in with their CAT registration Id, Email ID and their date of birth as below:
IIM Jammu will participate in CAP 2025. Last year also, IIM J participated in CAP and released the shortlist for PI round with a different cut off for CAP and for its own selection round which was conducted after CAP was over.
The minimum cut-offs of CAT percentile required in each section and overall percentile for shortlisting candidates for personal interview were common for all the participating 9 IIMs. The shortlisting criteria was changed further for all the CAP participating IIMs including IIM Jammu, as under:
IIM Jammu released actual CAT percentile cut offs for all categories in shortlisting process for MBA admission last year:
Source: IIM Jammu Shortlisting Criteria 2024
To improve the Gender Diversity, IIM Jammu used the following cut offs in shortlisting the female candidates for CAP round. The female candidates who were shortlisted due to these cut-offs were considered after CAP round was over
Candidates can see their shortlist status by login at IIM Jammu Shortlist at official IIM Jammu website with their CAT registration Id, Email ID and their date of birth:
IIMs Shortlisting Cut Offs
The minimum CAT percentile cut offs in IIM Shortlist during 2024 were as below. Actual cut offs in shortlist this year can be different.
The norms being adopted by IIMs to announce the shortlist for final selection round is changed every year in harmony to respective IIM Admission policy for the upcoming batch. IIM Admission criteria 2025 now focus more on academic diversity, gender diversity and diverse profile of the candidates along with the quality of work experience. Therefore the IIM Shortlist criteria is changed by giving less weightage to CAT score and higher weightage to other skills of the candidates as integrated in the IIM admission criteria.
Recent Popular Articles:
Time Management Tips for CAT Exam
Schedule of Top MBA Entrance Exams 2024-22
Fees of Top MBA Colleges in India
--- https://mbaroi.in/IIM/iim-cut-off/
CAT 2022 exam has been completed and all the candidates are waiting for the result to come out. Soon after the result announcement all the IIMs released their qualifying CAT cutoff and invite candidates for the further selection process (IIM CAP). After the completion of all the rounds, IIMs will release a final CAT cutoff 2022 of selected candidates for admission. The IIM CAT cut-off percentile depends upon several factors. The most desirable IIMs like IIM Ahmedabad, IIM Kolkata & IIM Bengaluru usually have a very high cut-off: from 98 to 100 percentile! . As of 2017, 2018, 2019, 2020, 2021, 2022 & 2023  the qualifying cut-off for IIM Ahmedabad was 80. For the CAT 2024 exam, IIM Ahmedabad will release the final cut-offs in Jan 2025.
Based on the difficulty level of the exam and the number of participants the qualifying cut-off of CAT 2024 for the IIMs is expected to be 80+ percentile. The cut-off percentile also depends on the difficulty level of the CAT exam, the total number of candidates review CAT, and the  total number of seats in IIMs. Therefore, it is well known that, as the total seats in IIMs are 7500 (as on 2024),  for MBA/PGDM programs (General: 40.5%, OBC: 27%, SC:15%, ST: 7.5%, PwD & EWS: 10%)
Expected Final CAT cut off for 2024 CAT is mentioned below.
AC-1 (Medicine and Surgery based subjects):
Part I:   MBBS, MD (USA)
Part II:  BDS, BAMS, BHMS
AC-2 (Selected Professional Degrees): Chartered Accountancy (CA), Cost and Works Accountancy (ICWA), Company Secretaryship (CS), Fellow of the Institute of Actuaries of India (FIAI)
AC-3 (All Commerce, Economics, Finance and Management Related Degrees): Including BAF, BBA, BBE, BBI, BBM, BBS, BCAF, BCCA, BCOM, BFIA, BFM, BHM, BHMCT, BIBF, BMS (Bachelor of Management studies) and BSBA degrees.
In particular, including
Economics/ Economic Development and Planning
Any degree in Hospitality/Hospitality Studies, Catering/Catering Technology, Hotel, Travel and Tourism Management, Tourism Studies and any other related discipline.
Commerce (Accountancy, Auditing, Banking, Business Mathematics, Business Organisation, Finance, Information Technology, Insurance, Investment Analysis, Public Finance, Secretarial Practices etc.)
Management (Advertising, Agriculture and Food Business, Agribusiness Management, Agriculture Marketing and Cooperation, Agriculture and Rural and Tribal Development, Business Administration, Business Management, Business Studies, Commercial Agriculture and Business Management, Entrepreneurship, Management Studies, Sports Management, Real Estate and Urban Infrastructure, Renewable Energy Management, Oil and Gas Management, Production and Industrial Management)
Any other vocational degree in commerce and management.
AC-4
I (All Engineering, Technology and Architecture related Areas): Including BARCH, BE, BIT, BINFTECH, BS (ENG)/ BSC (ENG), BTECH and integrated MTECH degrees (Excluding all degrees in Accessories Design/Apparel Production/Design/Fashion Communication/Fashion Design/Fashion Technology/Interior Design/Knit Wear Design/Leather Design/Jewelry Design/Footwear Design, and BS/BSC degrees in Information Technology).
Agricultural Engineering/ Dairy Technology/ Food Technology
Architecture
BE/BS (ENG)/BSC (ENG)/BTECH/integrated MTECH degrees in Biosciences, Geological Sciences, Information Technology, Mathematical Sciences and Natural Sciences
BE/BS (ENG)/BSC (ENG)/BTECH/integrated MTECH in all Engineering/Technology and related areas, including subjects like Chemical Technology, Electronics, Engineering Physics etc.
Textile Engineering/Technology
Others: All other fields where BE/BS (ENG)/BSC (ENG)/BTECH/integrated MTECH degrees are awarded, not explicitly included or excluded elsewhere in the list.
II (Science and Agriculture related Areas, other than Medicine and Surgery): Including all BS/BSC and integrated MS/MSC (excluding degrees in Economics, Fashion Design, Journalism, and Leather Design). Also including degrees in paramedical, veterinary degrees.
Actuarial Science
Agriculture (Agronomy, Soil Science, Agricultural Biochemistry, Plant Breeding and Genetics, Plant Pathology, Soil Science etc.)
Biosciences (Biology, Biochemistry, Biotechnology, Botany, Life Science, Zoology etc.)
Computer Applications (BCA, MCA)
Fisheries
Forestry
Geological Sciences (Geography, Geology and Geophysics.)
Horticulture
Information Technology
All bachelor's/integrated master's degrees in Mathematical Sciences (Computer Science, Mathematics, Statistics etc.)
Natural Sciences (Chemistry, Physics etc.)
Paramedical/Physiotherapy
Pharmacology/Pharmacy
Planning
Veterinary Science/ Animal Husbandry
Media Science, Media Science and Technology
Physiology
Any vocational degree in science (BS/BSC)
Science (Others): Forensic
AC-5 (All Arts/Humanities Related Degrees, Design, Education, Fashion Design/Technology, Law and Rural Studies): Including any BA (excluding Economics, Geography and Geological Sciences, Mathematics and Statistics), BAA, BAJM, BCJ, BDES, BED, BFTECH, BJ, BJMC, BL, BM (Bachelor of Music), BMC, BMM, BMus, BSW and LLB.
Accessories Design/Apparel Production/Design/Fashion Communication/Fashion Design/Fashion Technology/Fashion Merchandising and Retail Management, Interior Design/Knit Wear Design/Leather Design/Footwear Design/Jewelry Design (all degrees)
Arts/Humanities (Archaeology, Education, Fine Arts (Dance, Drama, Film, Music, Painting etc.), History, Languages, Library Science, Literature, Mass Communication, Media Studies, Philosophy, Political Science, Public Administration, Social Work/Welfare, Sociology, etc.)
Education (including Physical Education and Sports)
Journalism/Mass Communication/Media Studies (all degrees)
Law (BL LLB/B.Com. LLB/BBA LLB)
Psychology (all degrees)
Rural Studies/Rural Sociology/Rural Cooperatives/Rural Banking
Any vocational degree in arts/education/humanities (BA)
AC-6: Any other discipline not mentioned in AC-1 to AC-5.
Note:
Dual bachelor's degree holders will be classified in one of the categories AC-1 to AC-6 based on their field(s) and subjects. Applicants are requested to mention both the degrees of specialization separately in Bachelor Degree 1 and Bachelor Degree 2.
Final discretion on the academic category that an academic programme will be classified into rests with the Admissions Committee of IIMA.
For candidates having undergone/completed an integrated master's degree directly after their HSC, their classification into an academic category will be based on their academic discipline in the integrated master's degree programme.
For a candidate who has obtained further higher degrees after their bachelor's degree or their integrated Master's degree, other than those degrees listed in Table 8, the discipline(s) of the subsequent degrees will not be taken into consideration in deciding their classification in an academic category.
IIM CAT cut off percentile vs the shortlist percentile
This is very important to take note of is the difference between the CAT short-list cut-off %ile verses the call cut-off %ile. The short-list IIMs CAT cut off percentile is generally a lot lower and meeting the short-list cut-off percentile doesn’t guarantee admission.
On meeting the short-list cut-off percentile you may be short-listed for WAT, GD, and PI. This may not again ensure that you will be called for WAT, GD, and PI. On other hand the call cut-off percentile is much higher than the short-list cut-off percentile. This is released after the result declaration.
To quote an example, the shortlist cut-off percentile for IIM Ahmadabad was approx. 80 in 2020 while its call cut-off percentile was 100. Read More on IIM's Website
FAQs - IIM CAT cut-off
Question. What is the Cut-off of CAT for IIMs?
Answer.CAT exam cutoff is the minimum marks required for admission in IIMs it varies in the range of 90-99 for all the items. Top IIMs like IIM A, IIM B, and IIM C cut-off is around 98 - 100 Where New IIMs have their cutoffs between 90 - 95.
Question. Which IIM has the Lowest CAT Cut- off?
Answer. As per the CAT 2024 Cut-off IIM Sirnaur, Udaipur, Shilong, and Vishakapatnam has the lowest cutoff. All four IIMs asked for the 91 percentile marks cutoff for admission to their institute.
Question. Can I get admission in IIM with 95 percentile?
Answer. Yes! you can take admission in the New generation IIMs with that much percentile. Although for taking admission to IIM Ahmedabad, IIM Bangalore, and IIM Calcutta you need to score marks between 98-100 percentile.
Question. Who realease the CAT Cutoff for IIMs?
Answer. IIMs themselves release the CAT exam cutoff for admission to their institute. On the basis of
the number of applicants, cat results, seats available, and CAP (CAT Selection Process) they release their own cutoff list.
--- https://mbaroi.in/blog/admission-in-iim-without-cat/
The Indian Institute of Management, widely known as IIMs, are the most prominent B-Schools for Business studies in India. They offer a number of undergraduate, postgraduate, executive and fellow or doctoral programs. They are famous for their MBA, PGDM, PGP, Executive MBA and fellowship programs. Nevertheless, a candidate must be aware of the eligibility for IIMs, if they decide to apply to these Business Schools.
IIMs are created by a special act of parliament and are registered under institutions of national importance. As of date, there are 20 IIMs in India. Moreover, few of these are regarded as the dream B-schools for most MBA aspirants in India for the reason of their respect and reputation.
IIM-A (IIM Ahmedabad), IIM-B (IIM Bangalore) and IIM-C (IIM Kolkata, earlier-Calcutta), generally known as IIM-A, B and C, and has the highest rank across the country in terms of Research, Placements, faculty, curriculum etc.
About the Eligibility for Admission in IIM without CAT:
For getting admission in an MBA program in IIMs, the aspirant necessary requires to hold a graduation degree in any area from a recognized university with a minimum of 50% marks (No lower limit for 2021) or equivalent GPA. This is a crucial IIM MBA eligibility criteria for any aspirant applying. On the other hand, if the candidate belongs to any other category, i.e. SC/ST/PwD, the eligibility criteria is relaxed to 45% (No lower limit for 2021).
Now for admission into an IIM without CAT is writing the GMAT. The aspirant needs to write the GMAT exam and should score the minimum required percentile to be eligible for admission in IIMs.  It is important for students to qualify for both the sectorial and the overall cut off GMAT score.
If the bachelor score report of the aspirant consists of grades/GPA instead of marks, the student needs to get an equivalence letter given by the college/university from where the degree has been earned. The aspirant needs to present a written document from the principal or some competent authority from the university mentioning the same.
The aspirants who are appearing for their Graduation final year examinations or those who have already written their final year exams and are waiting for their results are also eligible for applying to the IIMs.
It is a must to submit the final score report of graduation after the candidate has been approved for admission. Failure to provide the same leads to the cancellation of admission.
Aspirants who have cleared the minimum GMAT cut-off to need to take WAT, GD and PI process and clear it successfully. The passing of the GMAT cut-off merely doesn’t guarantee admission into IIMs. After clearing all the compulsory assessment procedures and submitting the necessary documents, the aspirant is accepted.
There is no definite age limit for admission into IIMs. The candidate should just have a graduation degree with a minimum of 50% marks to be considered.
IIM Admission criteria for GMAT
Commonly, the total GMAT score ranges from 200-800, and an average score of an applicant ranges from 400-600. But IIMs require quite a high GMAT score of 720+. The main IIMs like the IIM-B, IIM-I, IIM-C, and IIM-A eligibility criteria require above 700 GMAT scores for their one-year PGPx program.
Also Read:- CAT Exam Date & Timings
IIM Eligibility Criteria for MBA, PGP, PGDM:
The first step towards getting into an IIM is cracking the CAT/GMAT or Common Admission Test with a high score. It is an important test for admission into PGP, PGDM or MBA conducted in India by IIMs. CAT is taken by nearly 2.30 lakh aspirants every year for around 5500 seats.
Aspirants who wrote this exam and meet the eligibility criteria of their chosen program are then shortlisted for Analytical Writing Test (AWT), Group discussion round (GD) and Personal Interview (PI).
Aspirants can also get selected to other programs similar to MBAs at IIMs through their GMAT scores. GMAT or Graduate Management Admission Test is a multiple-choice, computer-based test intended to test an aspirant’s critical thinking and problem-solving skills.
Final selection:
Final selection is made based on the aspirants’ Final composite score, which is calculated by taking the following into consideration:
Writing Ability Test score
Personal Interview score,
GMAT score
Past academic performance and 5. Work experience.
Minimum Cut offs of GMAT scores for Admission to IIMs 2020-22
After evaluating the students on these parameters, he/she is finally selected.
If you are targeting the IIMs without CAT, it is critical to know that your GMAT score matters, but it is not the only criterion for getting you into an IIM. You have to have an equally extraordinary work profile and an outstanding academic background. Furthermore, your performance in the other rounds matters too. You need to be well prepared for your personal interview (PI), written ability test and group discussion rounds.
Total No. of candidates called for AWT-PI for PGP at IIM-A 2020-22
for more information visit the CAT website.
Top MBA Entrance Exams 2021-22
Top 10 Business School
Top 50 Business Schools
Top 100 Business Schools
--- https://mbaroi.in/IIM/iim-placements/
IIM Placements Report 2024: Highest, Median, Lowest etc.
Almost 5500 students passed from the 21 IIMs of India in the 2024 academic year. Like all the years this has also been a great year for IIM Placements. After having all the data of all the IIMs placements of 2024 here are some insights:
Minimum Salary:  Rs.09.00 Lakh
Maximum Salary: Rs. 01.15 Crore Per Annum in India.
21 students started their own business.
Students graduating from IIMs are considered one of the best managers of our country. They grow into their careers to become CEOs of many big conglomerates, and even this year IIM students did not disappoint the HRs of many big-name companies.
It has been observed that every IIM has a student cell which consists of students chosen from the current batch who in many ways is responsible for the campus placements in their college. In 2024 IIMs have managed to provide placements to all 100% students in all 21 IIMs with a whopping Highest Domestic Placement of 1.15 Crore Per Annum in IIM Calcutta.
Many big names like Accenture Strategy, Amazon, Bain & Company, Goldman Sachs, African Industries Group, Landmark Group, Deloitte, EY & BCG participated across all campuses. Apart from these giants, a few newly launched Indian startups also recruited IIM graduates at decent salaries.
The key fact is that almost 60% of the students have some kind of work experience of more than two years. This makes the placement packages go higher than ever in the domestic circuit.
Major of the placements in 2024 were from the consulting fields followed by marketing and operations. As per the reports, most of the IIMs witness a significant growth of 15% - 20% in their package offered to students.
Must Know about:  Total Seats and Fees of All IIMs
IIM Ahmedabad Placement 2024
IIM Ahmedabad or IIM-A placement report for the year 2024 has been released. 2024 has been an amazing year for the IIM-Ahmedabad placement. The highest domestic packages are offered for 1.08 Crore per Annum and Highest International Placement is offered for 212,347 USD (1.76 Crore Indian Rupee). Placement at this institute has seen a whooping growth of 30%-40% in all sectors. Since this year they have faced tough competition from other IIMs in terms of placements. IIM-A is no longer the highest placement provider among all 21 IIMs. The average package offered in IIM-A was 35.78 Lakh for domestic circuits which is a little less than 2023 placements. 70+ companies have participated in placements and offered 178 job offers.
The final placement process was conducted in two stages. The first was the Laterals process where firms interviewed students with prior work experience and offered them mid-level managerial positions. 30 firms hired from diverse sectors such as technology, banking, consulting, general management and analytics. In the second stage of the Final placement process, firms were grouped into cohorts based on the profile offered, and groups of cohorts were invited to campus across different clusters.
IIM B Placements  Details
IIM B managed to place 529 students out of 530 students of batch 2022-2024 and that one student has opted out from the placement process. Like last year the highest number of offers were made from the consulting sector followed by finance and marketing.  The average package offered to students is 35.31 LPA which is 7% higher than last year's placements. Also, there is no official news about the highest placement package but as per the source, it can be 01.15 Cr this year. Students of IIM Bangalore have received 606 offer letters from the 164 companies visiting the 2023 - 2024 placements.
The Complete Syllabus Composition:  Revised CAT Exam Syllabus 2024
IIM-C Placements Details
IIM Placements 2024 has been quite amazing for the students of IIM Calcutta. The highest domestic package bags by IIM C students is 01.15 Crore per annum.  465 students are in the batch out of which 21 students were chosen to be entrepreneurs and started their own startup.170+ companies have visited the colleges for placements and made 600+ job offers. The average package of IIM C students for 2024 was 35.07 LPA which was slightly higher than 2023 placements. Most of the students were placed in the consulting sector followed by finance and product management. Almost 39% of the students have more than 24 months experience. Placements were completed in three parts - 266 Job offers in the first part, 253 in the second, and 100+ in the Final Part.
IIM-Kozhikode Placements Details
Ranked 3rd IIM in management education by NIRF,  IIM Kozhikode witnessed a significant increase in placement numbers in 2024. The average salary offered to students has been increased by 30% to 40% this year.  The highest domestic package offered to IIM Kozhikode students in 2024 is 67.02 LPA which was 10% higher than the 2023 placement figure. In this year's placements, a total of 123 companies have participated and rolled out 573 job offers to the students.
IIM-Lucknow Placements Details
Nothing less than a dream placement 2024 has been a great success for IIM Lucknow. With 100% placement of the batch, IIM Lucknow managed to attract 200 recruits for the placements. The average package offered to a student in IIM Lucknow is 32.23 LPA. The highest domestic placement is 01.00 Cr and the highest international placement is 65 LPA at IIM Lucknow. Figures are enough to tell that this is one of the best MBA placement colleges in India.
IIM-Indore Placement Detail
IIM-Shillong Placement Detail
IIM-Rohtak Placement Detail
IIM-Udaipur Placement Detail
IIM-Ranchi Placement Detail
IIM-Mumbai Placement Detail - 2024
IIM-Raipur Placement Detail - 2024
IIM-Kashipur Placement Detail - 2024
IIM-Tiruchirappalli Placement Detail - 2024
IIM-Visakhapatnam Placement Detail - 2024
IIM-Amritsar Placement Detail - 2024
IIM-Nagpur Placement Detail - 2024
IIM-Bodh Gaya Placement Detail - 2024
IIM-Sirmaur Placement Detail - 2024
IIM-Sambalpur Placement Detail - 2024
IIM-Jammu Placement Detail - 2024
Hope this page enhence your knowledge about IIMs and their placement details. We have shared all possible information related to IIMs placement on single page. Kindly share it with your friends for their benifits
Important Dates for CAT 2022
CAT Previous Year Paper
Predict your admission chance in IIMs/Non-IIMs
--- https://mbaroi.in/mba-admission-predictor/
Find the CAT Percentile to get a call from IIMs/Non-IIMs
Predict your score in advance based on your profile
Setting up high targets and standards is a must. With our advanced AI algorithm tool "MBA Admission Predictor", you
can have an insight of the range of percentile that you must score for getting the desired Institute.
Get Actionable Insignts from MBA Admission predictor
MBA Admission Predictor is a tool where the MBA aspirants can get a range of percentile score that a student must achieve to get admission in the top MBA colleges. The
prediction is based on the candidate's Class X, XII, Graduation marks, XII and Graduation Stream, and choice of the Institute. This tool is also known as "Score Predictor" for admission in IIMs/Non-IIMs
How does the  MBA Admission predictor work?
Click on 'Predict Score' Button Mentioned above
Input Class X, XII, Graduation marks, XII and Graduation Stream, and choice of the Institute. Click 'Show Button' button to get the result
On the new page input 10th Exam Percentage, 12th Exam Stream, 12th
Exam Percentage. Click tab ‘Next’ on the page
The MBA Admission Predictor will now fetch and present target percentile and component scores
Benefits of  MBA Admission Predictor
With this "MBA Admission predictor" candidates can setup higher goals for CAT percentile of admission based on their past profile as this tool will tell them the approx. CAT percentile requied to get in the dream college
--- https://resume.mbaroi.in/
AIResumeBuilder
Create a  Perfect Resume  in Minues
Our AI Resume Builder help you create a professional resume.
--- https://mbaroi.in/mba-strength-finder/
Check your strength for MBA
MBAROI STRENGTH FINDER is an important tool to judge your fitness for PGDM/MBA. This MBA Strength Finder test is scientifically designed to measure the individuals' mental capabilities and behavioural style to know his current strengths in management.
Benefits
Our understanding shows that Strength Finder test are very trust worthy in forecasting candidates' performance, and in most cases the test report provides an accurate evaluation of the applicant. However a low score, doesn't mean that with a good training you can't improve your appropriateness for success post PGDM/ MBA.
It has been proven that an effective preparation which highlights your relevant strengths and improves your weaknesses increases your chances of success. At the end of the test AI (Artificial Intelligence) based recommendations will certainly help you to improve your performance in management.
--- https://mbaroi.in/mba-program-finder/
Get a perfect MBA match! Try now
'Program Finder' is an intelligently designed tool that helps you connect with your ideal MBA program better than others. The shortlisting tool will provide you the list of B-Schools you can apply based on your desired placement package, desired city
and desired fee.
Go ahead and try this tool for finding various MBA colleges that fit you the best and strengthen your candidature. Program finder generates initial list of top business schools that align with your preferences.
Click on the 'Desired City' input box.
Click on the arrow for the list view of the cities in which you can apply for an MBA Program. Select the city.
Click on the 'Desired Placement package' input box.
Click on the arrow for the list view of the range of your preferred salary package. Select the package preference.
Click on 'Desired Fee' input Box.
Click on the arrow for the list view of the range of course fees charged by various Institutes. Select the course fee preference.
The lists of suitable colleges appear below. The list is the starting point of your final answer to appropriate MBA program for you. The list is synthesized with a lot of data and insight, including our own opinions. This will help you demarcate the MBA
program that fits you best.
What is GD?
MAT Importants Dates
--- https://mbaroi.in/grit-scale/
Grit Scale
This will help student identify how successful in life she/he will become. The more Gritter person is the more successful in long run. GRIT Score above 3 is Good and above 4 shows you are on the right path. If you have a score between 2 and 3 , It means you start strong but lose focus and pick up other things. Below 2 you need to change your approach and setup a fixed goal and not change it.
Grit defines passion & focus on long-term goals and achievements. One way to think about grit is to consider what grit isn’t. Grit isn’t talent or luck or how bad you want something. Grit is about having what can be called as the ultimate goal in life, for which you care so much that you organize and give meaning to almost everything you do in life. GRIT is not losing focus from that goal. Even if you fall down and fail, even when you make mistakes, even when progress is slow or looks like stopping, you don’t lose hope and keep a focused approach to achieve the same.
Talent and luck matter to success. But in the very long run, GRIT matters the most on how successful you will be in achieving the goal.
Directions for taking the Grit Scale:
Here are a number of statements that may or may not apply to you. For the most accurate score, when responding, think of how you compare to most people -- not just the people you know well, but most people in the world. There is no right or wrong answers, so just answer honestly!
--- https://mbaroi.in/career-calculator/
Check Your Career Calculator
A successful career will offer you a lots of benefits & lucrative prospects. We dwell in a world ruled by social status, money and power, working your way up to the top will certainly improve your quality of life. There could be thousands of reasons for which an individual would desire success.
By being successful in your professional life one feels better among peers. By being successful you get the feeling of security and accomplishment. Creating a successful career takes time, effort, and persistence. If you're willing to lose some free time and you're ready to get out of your comfort zone, you will succeed.
It's not that hard, honestly!
It just needs focus and commitment to follow the things that you wish to achieve.
To ease your path to success we have created “Career Calculator”. You, at an early stage of life may calculate the success rate at different careers. The outcome in the calculator may vary in few cases but in general the trend remains the same.
--- https://mbaroi.in/education-loan-calculator/
Education EMI Loan Calculator
Monthly EMI:₹
Principal Amount: ₹
Total Interest:
Total Amount: ₹
--- https://mbaroi.in/mat-exam-date/
--- https://mbaroi.in/xat-exam-date/
--- https://mbaroi.in/best-roi-colleges/
Best ROI Colleges in India
Get Latest MBA Information
Here is the list of Best ROI Colleges offer MBA/PGDM:
--- https://mbaroi.in/blog/top-mba-entrance-exams/
Top MBA Entrance Exams 2024-25
Applications for XAT, SNAP, IBSAT, MAT, ATMA, and GMAT are open or going to be open soon; CAT has only few days  left. Here below is the updated information on the top MBA entrance exams to be held in 2024 and 2025 for the MBA admissions 2025-26. This article at a glance will tell you about the top MBA entrance exams, last date, Exam date, and Exam Fee.
Schedule of Most Popular Entrance Exams in India with fee:
As of date the CAT registration for CAT 2024 closed on September 20, 2024, and IIFT 2024 registrations are ongoing. Registration for NMAT 2024 is also closed on 12th October 2024, while Registration for SNAP will close on Nov 23, 2024. Registration for XAT 2025 will remain open till December 20th, 2024.
The Registration date for CMAT 2025 has still not been announced and is expected to close by the last week of February 2025.
Also Check: CAT Mock Test 2023
Name of Top Entrance Exams for Admission to Top MBA/PGDM Colleges in India:
There are broadly three kinds of Top MBA/PGDM entrance exams in India depending on the approval.
AICTE-approved MBA/ PGDM Entrance Exams:i) CATii) XATiii) CMATiv) ATMAv) GMAT
Institution Specific Top Entrance Exams but not valid to AICTE-approved colleges.i) NMATii) IBSATiii) IIFTiv) TISS NETv) KIITEEvi) PGCETvii) KMATviii) MICAT 2023
State Level Top MBA Entrance Exams.i) MAH CETii) TANCETiii) APICET
Check Top MBA Entrance Exams in Detail.
AICTE-approved MBA/ PGDM Entrance Exams, (National Level):
The details of  Top MBA colleges accepting AICTE-approved MBA  entrance Exam dates and schedule are given below. The list is not conclusive.
Institute-Specific Entrance Exams for MBA:
The following are the top University or top institution-specific exams conducted by that institute for MBA admissions. A score on a few of the exams is also accepted by other top Business Schools. Exam dates and the names of the accepting institutes are given below:
Also Check: Best MBA Colleges for Placement
State Universities Entrance Exams
These exams are conducted by particular state governments for admission to state Universities.
Also Check: Top Colleges by Location
Top MBA Colleges Accepting various Entrance Exams:
The following are the top MBA colleges accepting various MBA/PGDM Entrance Exam scores.
Also Check: Top 50 MBA Colleges in India
The application fee for the MBA entrance examinations is increasing every year. The following table gives an insight into the current application cost of different MBA entrance tests:
Popular Articles:
The Game of Marks vs Percentile
--- https://mbaroi.in/application-deadline/
​As you are seeking information on MBA admission deadlines for the top MBA colleges in India for the 2025 academic year, please note that application deadlines vary across institutions and are subject to change. It's crucial to verify the exact dates directly from the official websites of the respective colleges. Below is a table summarizing the application deadlines for several top MBA colleges in India:​
--- https://mbaroi.in/colleges/taxila-business-school/
Mandir Marg, Mansarovar Sector 9, Sector 9, Mansarovar, Jaipur, Rajasthan 302020
Course
Highlights
MBAROI Rating
Admission
Similar College
Started in 2003, AICTE approved, situated in the middle of commercial city of Jaipur, the Taxila Business School is marinated in a custom of offering cutting-edge business education to its students. Taxila's futuristic and challenging curriculum, outstanding faculty, and cohesive alumni network ensure Taxila students are prepared to become the next generation of leaders.
PGDM+Business Analytics(2 years)
No. of Courses1 Course (120 Seats)
Exams MAT, XAT, CAT etc.
Total Fees ₹ 09.5 L
Rank10
Highest Salary ₹ 28.6 LPA
Average Salary ₹ 11.50 LPA
Post Graduate Program in Management with Business Analytics (1 year)
No. of Courses1 Course
Eligibility Graduates from any discipline.
Total Fees ₹ 1.18 L
Taxila support its faculty in their teaching and research activities.
As among Top Cluster Ranking 10th B School By IIRF, we trust hard work builds a culture of success wherein students learn to be leaders and business tycoons.
We trust in recognizing our academia for producing extraordinary quality research material which helps in improving trade and business processes and fuels business performance.
At Taxila, we trust a business education is imperfect if students do not hold a sense of service and accountability to their own communities.
Taxila has a vast network of alumni, over 5,000 strong, who offer their time and resources to this great institution.
MBAROI (Rating)
4.6
admission process
Taxila Business School admissions are purely granted based on a valid score in CAT, CMAT, XAT, GMAT, ATMA or MAT
Suitable weightage is given for work experience, academic & regional background, professional qualification, the institution of excellence
For final selection, candidates need to go through a PI round
The new PGDM batch will commence in July
Admission form’s cost is non-refundable after the purchase of the form
Rules of the registration fee:
Selected candidates need to deposit Rs 50,000 as a registration fee
If the name of candidates does not appear in the selection list, they may deposit Rs 25,000 (irrevocable) to keep their waiting list alive
In case of non-selection, Rs 25,000 will be refunded back to the student on the 10th day of the batch starting in July'22
In case of selection, Rs 25,000 will be adjusted against the registration fee
**The same will be mentioned in the call letter. In case the student does not pay this amount, admission will get canceled and the seat shall be passed to the next candidate in waiting.
Placements - 2021-23
Infrastructure & Facilities
Highest CTC 28.6 Lakh
Enquire Now
Average CTC 15 Lakh
Explore MBA
Best ROI colleges
Location wise Colleges
Talk to current students
Similar Colleges
--- https://mbaroi.in/mba-roi-recommended-colleges/
MBA ROI Recommended Colleges in India
Here is the list of MBA ROI Recommended Colleges offer MBA/PGDM:
--- https://mbaroi.in/mba-specializations/
--- https://mbaroi.in/blog/top-mba-exams/
MBA is a very popular stream for post-graduation in India. India is home to approximately 5500 B schools. A pool of management students, not just from  India but from abroad as well keeps trying hard to get entry into these schools. Many of these B-Schools are of international repute too. Since the number of applying students is more, and seats are still limited one has to write competitive MBA exams to get admission to management school.
There are a number of entrance exams being relied upon by each type of institution to test the abilities of the aspirants. CAT being the most prestigious of such exams, the result of a CAT exam is accepted by many of these colleges. Let’s look at CAT and other well-known MBA entrance exams in India that MBA aspirants should consider for admissions to the Top MBA colleges.
Here is the list of Top MBA Entrance Exams in India
National Level MBA Entrance Exams
Common Admission Test (CAT) is conducted once a year by IIMs. CAT is the toughest and most prestigious MBA entrance exam out of all MBA entrance exams of India. There is no official CAT Exam Syllabus provided by IIMs, so the students who meet the CAT Eligibility Criteria prepare for this exam with help of CAT previous years’ papers and CAT Mock Tests. CAT score is used by 20 IIMs and over 1000 other management institutes across the country for selecting their candidates. More than two lakh students appear for the exam each year and are being conducted since 1950.
The CAT questions consist of 100 MCQs that need to be solved in 180 minutes. CAT Exam pattern is revised due to the COVID-19 pandemic in 2020. In 2020 CAT was conducted in three sessions and the time allotted was 120 minutes. The Exam was held on November 29 and has 3 sections viz. Verbal Ability, Quantitative Aptitude, Data Interpretation & Logical Reasoning.
Also Read: Admission in IIM without CAT
The Common Management Admission Test or CMAT Exam is the next important entrance taken by Management school applicants. This exam is also attended by about 1.5 lakh candidates who satisfied the CMAT Eligibility Criteria.  Candidates have to score 90+ percentile in CMAT results for claiming a seat in the top MBA colleges of India. All the applicants are instructed to use the CMAT previous year’s papers and best books for CMAT preparation 2023. The test is convened by the National Testing Agency and was initiated in the year 2012. The score from the CMAT exam is also accepted by more than 1000 Business schools in India. The exams are held in January. CMAT is an online format exam held for 180 minutes. According to the updated CMAT Syllabus, CMAT Exam is divided into 4 sections: Quantitative Technique, Logical Reasoning, Language Comprehension, and General Awareness.
Also Read: Top MBA Colleges Accepting CMAT Score
XAT is also among the top management entrance tests of India, known as, Xavier Aptitude Test or XAT Exam; this is also a computer-based aptitude test. The exam is conducted by XLRI Jamshedpur and approximately about 1 lakh candidates appear for this exam. The exam is held on the first Sunday of every year in January. The scores are accepted by at least Top 100 management institutes including XLRI. As per the updated XAT Syllabus, four sections of this exam are Quantitative Ability, English Language & Logical Reasoning, Decision Making, General knowledge.
Also Read: XAT Exam Important Dates, XAT Exam Eligibility Criteria, XAT Admit Card
Symbiosis National Aptitude Test or SNAP is also a national-level entrance exam that is accepted by 15 institutes that work under Symbiosis International University. There are other MBA colleges as well that use SNAP scores to consider candidates for admission. The SNAP Registration starts in the month of August till November. This 2-hour duration exam is held in the month of December.SNAP Test is computer-based and the SNAP Syllabus is divided in three sections, General English, Quantitative, Data Interpretation & Data Sufficiency, Analytical & Logical Reasoning
Also Read: SNAP Exam Eligibility Criteria
Indian Institute of Foreign Trade is a national level MBA entrance exam for the MBA course presented by the Indian Institute of Foreign Trade. Conducted by National Testing Agency, the exam time is 120 minutes. As per IIFT Syllabus and Exam Pattern, it contains 4 sections with negative markings also. This year the IIFT Exam Date is scheduled to be on December 05, 2021. This is also a computer-based exam and is conducted in 68 cities of India. IIFT has its campuses in Kolkata and Delhi apart from the upcoming one in Kakinada.
Also Read: IIFT Exam Eligibility Criteria, IIFT Cut Offs 2021
Management Aptitude Test/ MAT Exam are also popular National entrance exams for MBA in India. The body convening this entrance is the All India Management Association (AIMA). Since the pandemic is going on there is a Remotely Proctored Internet-Based Test this year. Eligible Applicants can take the exams at home with all the measures of precaution.  MAT is conducted four times a year. February, May, September, and December are the months when MAT exams take place, and about 400 MBA/PGDM Colleges accept the MAT scores for admissions.
Also Read: MAT Exam Syllabus
Conducted by Graduate Management Admission Council (GMAC), these national-level entrance exams are held three times per year. This year the number of questions has been decreased to 108 from 120 earlier. As per the NMAT exam pattern and syllabus, there are 3 sections to be answered viz. Language Skills, Quantitative Skills, and Logical Reasoning along with each section individually timed. NMAT scores are accepted in 29 institutes in India, 7 in South Africa and 5 in the Philippines accept NMAT scores for admissions. The scores can be sent from India to other accepting institutes in different countries
Also Read: NMAT Exam Eligibility, NMAT Exam Important Dates
IBS Hyderabad or ICFAI Business School administers IBS Aptitude Test.  The exam is taken to accomplish admission in any of the nine IBS campuses. IBS campuses are situated in Hyderabad, Dehradun, Ahmedabad, Bangalore, Gurgaon, Mumbai, Jaipur, Kolkata, and Pune. As per the IBSAT Syllabus, Computer-based questions will be asked in 4 sections. The sections are Reading Comprehension, Data Interpretation & Data Adequacy, Quantitative Ability, and Verbal Ability. The computer-based test is conducted as per the IBSAT 2020 pattern.
Also Read: IBSAT Eligibility Criteria, IBSAT Exam Important Dates
The Graduate Management Admission Test (GMAT) exam is a computer-based test that evaluates the candidates’ analytical writing, quantitative, verbal and reading skills in standard written English. This test is taken to get admission into a graduate management program, such as MBA and related courses in business schools across the world.
Also Read: GMAT Eligibility Criteria, GMAT Exam Syllabus, GMAT Exam Important Dates
AIMS Test for Management Admissions or ATMA is a national-level exam conducted by the Association of Indian Management Schools (AIMS) for admission to MBA, PGDM, MCA and PGDBA courses. The exam is organized four times a year.
Also Read: ATMA Eligibility Criteria, ATMA Exam Syllabus
State-Level Management Entrance Exams
Taking state-level MBA exams enable students to get admission in their home states, and even get the advantage of domicile reservation. A few recognized state-level MBA exams are:
KMAT (Karnataka)
MAH CET (Maharashtra)
APICET (Andhra Pradesh)
TSICET (Telangana)
TANCET (Tamil Nadu)
UPSEE (Uttar Pradesh)
KMAT (Kerala)
JEMAT (West Bengal)
OJEE (Orissa)
HPU MAT (Himachal Pradesh)
RMAT (Rajasthan)
Also Read: City Wise Top Colleges For MBA in India
University-Level MBA Entrance Exams
A few other exams that are conducted by various universities specifically for entrance into their MBA programs are:
DUET (Delhi University)
IPU CET (Indraprastha University)
AMU MBA (Aligarh Muslim University)
MONIRBA (Motilal Nehru Institute of Research and Business Administration)
CUCET (Central Universities)
MU OET (Manipal University)
KIITEE (Kalinga Institute of Industrial Technology)
LPU NEST (Lovely Professional University)
VMOU (Vardhman Mahaveer Open University)
NMIMS NPAT (Narsee Monjee Institute of Management Studies)
IMU CET (Indian Maritime University)
BMAT (Bharti Vidyapeeth Deemed University)
NIPER JEE (National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research)
CUSAT CAT (Cochin University)
Also Read: Top 100 MBA Colleges In India
Related Popular Articles
How To Advance Your Career With An MBA?
MBA Fees in India
Schedule of Top MBA Entrance Exams 2021-22
Top MBA Colleges in India with Fees and Average Package
How Neuromarketing is Revolutionizing Advertising Strategies?
Top MBA Colleges in India for Online MBA
--- https://mbaroi.in/blog/top-non-iim-colleges/
Every MBA college, whether an IIM or a Non-IIM, offers admissions only through their respective selection process, which is usually based on the entrance exam scores and personality assessment tests. Personality assessments are conducted in the form of Essay Writing (WAT) , Personal Interviews (PI) and Group Discussions (GD), etc. India’s top Non-IIM B-Schools accept the scores from CAT, XAT, CMAT, MAT, SNAP, ATMA, and GMAT for admissions.
Many Non-IIMs are ranked at par with the IIMs and are no less than IIMs with respect to curriculum, project, assignment, internships, learning experience, and infrastructure. Selecting the right B-School is an extremely important decision for an MBA aspirant. If you are trying for an MBA admission based on a good CAT score, landing a good management college will not be difficult.
Many top MBA colleges give IIMs a race for their ranks. Out of all the promising MBA institutes, select the institute that caters to your personality and your post-MBA goals. Your passion and interests must be the first and foremost drive while choosing an MBA program for you.
Also Read: What if your CAT score is low?
What to consider while selecting a Non-IIM college?
Since new management institutes are showing up every year, here is some light on what to consider while narrowing down your list of Non-IIM business schools.
Faculty & Learning ExperienceB-schools publish their faculty profile on their website. Look for professional experience, academic qualification, research/publications, and Industry engagements of the teaching staff. Try to avoid the B-school if the details of the faculty could not be found anywhere.  Core faculty determines the learning experience and passable mentorship of the institute.
Student’s Background and DiversityA lot of input goes into modelling the career and personality of a student. The Classroom is not the only point of learning, peers and the diversity of the classroom, contribute a lot towards promotion and healthy competition when they are academically inclined. Choose your Non-IIM MBA wisely where you can come together with best of the professionals and people with diverse backgrounds.
Government Recognition, Accreditation, and RankingAccreditations and Recognitions ensure the quality of MBA education. These are a surety that the program is meticulously tested and students can be rest assured that they will get the highest return on their MBA investment.– AMBA, AACSB, and EQUIS are the three top international accrediting bodies.– MBA degree programs are offered by UGC and PGDM is offered by the AICTE.– Top 2 National Accreditations are, National Board of Accreditation (NBA), National Assessment & Accreditation on Council (NAAC)Rankings help in resolving which MBA Colleges are better than the others. The creditability and track record of the ranking agency is also important for a piece of reliable advice. NIRF, Indian Institutional Ranking Framework (IIRF), Business Today, Outlook B-School Rankings are among a few dependable Ranking organisations.
Courses and SpecialisationsIf you wish to do MBA, then you need to choose a specialisation and the institute accordingly. The two types of programs offered for MBA are General Management Program (GMP) and Specialisation-based Program (SP). GMP offers flexibility to choose any sector, allows diversification, and thus the better placement opportunities as compared to SP. E.g. XLRI, MICA, TISS, etc. provide programmes that cater to a specific sector or specialises in one area.
Course Fee, Scholarships, and Financial AidA better ROI is an outcome of a moderate fee structure and a good placement. Compare the fee structures of various institutes and study their curriculum and learning process. Take into account, the total fee and expenses for 2 years of MBA, tuition fee, expenses on a laptop, boarding & lodging expenses, study material, etc. for arriving at the total cost of the MBA program. Some B-schools justify their ROI even with a high fee structure (Rs. 20 to 25 lacs for 2 years) e.g. IIMs, but one of the country’s top Non-IIM FMS-Delhi charges only about Rs. 2 lacs for the whole program.
Internship and Placement RecordWhich institutes have the best Placements and who are the top recruiters? The answers to these questions fetch a lot of information about the overall performance and reputation of an MBA institute. Institutes with high placement rates are ranked among the top B-schools in India. It is advisable to check the authenticity of the placement rates stated by the B-Schools on their portals.Look at the detailed placement rates, average salaries and the highest salary offer, number of companies associated with the campus, and summer internships.
Legacy & Alumni BaseThe alumni base is a good indicator of the institutes’ reputation and performance. Alumni also help to build a good career path and global network. Look at the top B-Schools like FMS Delhi, which possesses a 60 years legacy and its alumni are spread around the world. The legacy builds a vicious circle of getting the candidates placed well year after year. Hence, a good alumni network reflects its position on placements.
InfrastructureLast but not the least, a well-equipped classroom, auditorium, library, and other infrastructure facilities must be checked before you make a decision. A good infrastructure contributes a great deal towards a good learning environment.
Eligibility Criteria for Non-IIMs
With a graduation aggregate of 50% marks, it is possible to achieve admission into a Non-IIM institute.
An MBA program from IITs requires at least 60% aggregate marks in graduation.
There are other MBA institutes that do not publish any cut-off marks for admissions but they may have their own selection criteria for admissions. MBA applications are usually assessed on the basis of a candidate’s entrance exam score, academic score, academic diversity, leadership quality, confidence, analytical ability, and work experience, etc. Work experience can be an added advantage for the candidate.
List of A Few Top Non-IIM Colleges
Here are a few top-ranked Non-IIM colleges that accept CAT scorecard:
Also Read: CAT Exam 2021 Updates
An IIM or Non-IIM does not really matter and the aspirants mustn’t get stressed. Take it as a pleasant experience, try on different hats and make efforts to know yourself better, to make the right decision. Manage your expectations and choose an institute where you can utilize your skills, gain new skills, and position yourself better to shape a better version of yourself.
What Is The Scope Of PGDM?
--- https://mbaroi.in/blog/most-common-mba-interview-questions-asked-in-admission-pi-round/
Thrill
Anxiety.
It’s thrilling that a B-School is considering accepting your application, but feeling nervous about it, means you need to prepare more for an MBA interview is the only way to fight anxiety. Whereas most of B-School will have a different and unique style of questions, there may be few that are likely to come up whichever school you are interview at.
The vital thing that an interviewer wishes to see is that if you can give thoughtful and careful answers, so take them through your thought process while you spell out the answer. Be bold to ask them to repeat a question or to clarify a point and try not to get distracted by unanticipated questions. Give a pause, have a deep breath, and take your own time to answer.
B-School interviews are there to catch you out and trip you down, as some people may suggest. But that’s a myth. It is very much not likely that you will be asked to discuss a particular book, theory, or film unless you have cited it in your personal statement, or it is believed to be very commonly known. As stated before, the idea is to check how good you think issues through and how you can apply your knowledge to real-life perceptions.
These are some common MBA interview questions that you are most likely to be asked during a B-School admissions PI.
What is your expectation from MBA? / Why have you chosen this? Unavoidably, there will be a few questions about your choice of MBA and what you expect to gain at the end of it. While answering why you selected your MBA, explain your research, and express your motivations for choosing this. It may be for financial gains or choosing a great lifestyle, talk a little about that and how MBA at this B-School might benefit you when you graduate.
Why do you want to study at this B-School?Generally, the first question you may be asked is why you want to study at this B School? Explain that you have done a depth study about this B-School and few others and that you have carefully considered your choice. Discuss your thought process and the main reasons that attract you to the B-School – whether it is the course content, the repute, the campus, the placements, or the student life.Also Read:- How to Prepare For MAT?
Where do you see yourself five years down the line?This is quite a big question; you need not reply by detailing a specific life plan. Sense about where you might like to be in terms of your career, will you be starting your own business or leading a team to incorporate. This MBA interview question, like the former ones, hunt for to confirm that you have given some thought to your future and have clear goals in mind.Also read:- The Rush for MBA is really a rush for big money?
What are you motivated by?This is somewhat a personal question, but one that gets to the root of what makes you impulsive. Answer this as frankly as you can, whether it is your hunger for the subject, a longing to do a specific job, or whether there are more emotional thoughts.Also read:- Top 10 Leadership Books
What are your strengths, and weaknesses?This could be asked in different ways, such as What would you say is your best quality? or how your friends and family members define you? No matter how it is formulated, the aim of this question is to understand more of you. In fact, the interviewer might ask one of a simple MBA interview questions: Tell me something about yourself?These types of questions are a lot the most complicated to answer because you want to be competent enough to share the positive attributes of your personality and your achievements without sounding like you are boasting. Don’t be shy to ask people around you to help you out and suggest a few good breaking points to cover.Think about the issues that you are good at and the things that you are not so good at and indicate how those points could be understood by someone who doesn’t know you that well.Remember that, while it is essential to be sincere about your flaws, you don’t want to say anything too negative, which might cause an interviewer to put a black mark on you. Try to find a positive twist on them or outline ways that you are trying to address them.
How do you spend your free time?This is another way for the interviewer to explore more about you. He might wish to know what interests and appetites you have beyond academics and get a feeling of how well-rounded you are. It might be tempting to try to link your hobby to your MBA (and it’s great if it does), it doesn’t matter if there’s no link between the two.Speak up to any sports or music groups that you are part of or any particular area of literature that you are interested in, if you enjoy cooking, going to the theatre, or go to concerts. Now, this is your turn to talk about things that you love the most.
What can you bring to the B-School? In the same way that you are using the interview as an opportunity to see whether this B-School is the right fit for you, the interviewer is seeing if you are the right fit for the B-School.This is quite a tricky MBA question to answer, so think about some of the things that you believe you are really good at and would like to get involved with while at B-School, discussing both the academic factors and the extracurricular ones.You may be a great athlete, or love putting on musical theatre productions. You might be a brilliant public orator or eager to get involved in sustainability initiatives at the B-School. These are all great things that B Schools look for in potential candidates.
Do you have any questions for me?A B-School interviewer will be very likely to give you the opportunity to ask questions, and it is worthwhile to come ready with a few. Spend a bit of time thinking about what you really want to know about the B-School or the course. There might also be some questions that come up during the interview process, so don’t be terrified to ask questions all over or make a note of them and ask at the end of the interview. Ensure to place relevant questions only. Never ask whether you have been selected or not.
Don’t ask anything that you may get out through the B-School’s website. Or from social media channels because it will look like you haven’t done your homework. Think as an alternative of more in-depth questions, factors that you would like to know about the MBA from this B school or student life here.
Must Read these blogs
Importance and Benefits of Networking Before MBA
City Wise Top MBA College Accepting CAT Score – Ranking Fees and Placement
--- https://mbaroi.in/blog/what-if-your-cat-score-is-low/
The CAT results are out and for those who scored low; the big question is either to appear for CAT again or to take admissions now? Picking up either of the possibilities has advantages as well as disadvantages. A low percentile in the CAT surely would not end anyone’s chance of being able to take admission into Top B-School
Think about this as a pitch to start and make this a place from where you want yourself to go. Do not make this situation a factual interpretation of something that you want to get out of. One still stands a good chance to get the Top MBA College in India. So, before sitting down to prepare for next year’s CAT, divert your efforts to list the B-Schools that are accepting the given score.
Even if the CAT scores are less, options are many for such candidates. Constructive individuals always strive to find an opportunity in all situations. At this point, students must research well and find out more about available alternatives and choose colleges that agree upon a wide percentile range. It will be mindful to identify the entrance exams of such colleges and programs as it will assist in the admission to top notch Institutes. The list is long so opportunities are many.
One should certainly not be reduced to his CAT score but the accomplishments and achievements of an individual are what defines him. Datasets do not express human beings; they are just working for reference. A lot matters about how actively are you involved in structuring yourself and how you reach your goals. Not to forget that scoring high in CAT is not the ultimate goal of candidates, the aim is to walk away with a fabulous breakthrough to a successful career path.
So have some hands-on practical knowledge and skills about how to speak for you. Believe and make believe that while your CAT score is not on the yardstick but there are many skills and experiences that you gained and are curious about; which would help you in a professional journey. So you can smartly draw the focus away from the score and throw light on your learnings generating positivism.
It is very important to take responsibility for a low score. Do not try to attribute it to factors like tough questions, stringent marking, etc. More than the CAT scores, what matters more is how skillfully the participants can learn ideas, concepts, and prepare for them in a practical context. The rigor, method, and discipline that lies within the aspirants’ approach towards various aspects equip them to perform well in the MBA programs and their respective careers further.
There are many Top MBA colleges that ponder the fact that the strengths of candidates are directly not translatable into the CAT methodology of Exam. So even if they are not at the best when coming to the competitive written exams, there still is cream of lots that need to be filtered out from the rest. There always will be a few candidates who do not justify into these criteria but may justify into the other, while they are still as good as the ones who fared well in CAT Scores.
Criterion other than CAT Score
The B-School admissions do not solely depend upon the CAT Scores. There are other colleges that consider not just CAT percentile, but the other facets like academic performance over the years, group discussions (GD), and Personal Interview rounds are taken into account largely as pre-requisites while admitting a student. Simply, in this case, having scored low in the CAT percentile, you can give your word for the personality test.
The academic background, extracurricular activities, and work experiences are the other factors of consideration for B-schools. In case you scored sufficiently to get you a call letter, be confident, and prepare of being able to perform well in your group discussion and personal interview round.
Also Read:- Get into IIMs without CAT
IIMs are the dream of many, and if they could not make it in the main IIMs, you still have a chance. The new IIMs may still be welcoming to you. Consider IIM Bodhgaya, IIM Ranchi, IIM Shillong, IIM Kashipur, and IIM Sambalpur, their cutoff eligibilities are lower compared to top B-Schools and IIMs.
A few non-IIMs are as renowned as the IIMS itself. So the next thing to try is to check your possibilities in non-IIMs.
IMI, Delhi,
SPJIMR,
TA Pai Management Institute,
Taxila Business School,
Lal Bahadur Shastri Institute of Management.
The institutes are rated better than a few of the IIMs in some ranking lists.
BIMTECH,
Amity University,
BITS-Pilani,
IBS Business School,
Great Lakes Institute of Management
Nirma University.
IIBS, Bangalore,
Doon Business School,
Jagan Institute of Management,
Indus Business Academy,
Sharda University.
Predict Colleges based on CAT Cutoffs with IIM / College Call Predictor
In case if your performance is below-par in CAT exam, worrying is not the approach. But if you still dream of a college that would not accept your CAT score, enroll for CAT exam next year and prepare well. And if this is an unfounded dream, then the world opens up to more possibilities. Get ready for the other National Level, State Level MBA entrance exams.
The scores from these entrances are accepted in some very prominent B-schools of the country. There are some well-known MBA entrance exams like XAT, MAT, CMAT, etc. that can fetch you admission to good colleges. Most of these exams are held after CAT exams. With only a little more effort candidates can score well in these exams.
Typically, MBA aspirants prepare for more MBA entrance exam than one. And if you found your CAT scores not so satisfying, pay attention to attempting more entrance exams. Put more effort and perform well. Do well in them. Better scores in those exams will help you secure admission in a well-reputed college.
Common Management Admission Test (CMAT)
Xavier Aptitude Test (XAT)
Symbiosis National Aptitude Test (SNAP)
AIMS Test for Management Admissions (ATMA)
TANCET
Maharashtra MAH MBA -CET
IPU CET
Punjab University Chandigarh MBA (Executive) Entrance Test
IITTM Gwalior MBA (Tourism)
AP ICET (Andhra Pradesh),
JEMAT (West Bengal),
MAH MBA CET (Maharashtra).
TANCET (Tamil Nadu),
TSICET (Telangana),
KMAT (Karnataka),
OJEE (Orissa),
HPU Mat (Himachal Pradesh)
Prepare for GMAT
If you are interested in pursuing an MBA from a foreign university you can appear for the GMAT exam as well.GMAT exams can be taken all through the year. So this flexibility can be utilized in terms of preparing for the GMAT. Secondly, more than 7000 MBA programs throughout the world accept GMAT scores.
A few Indian schools also accept GMAT scores. Thirdly, GMAT is much simpler to prepare and attempt when compared to CAT exams. The time required to get ready for GMAT is 70 percent lesser than preparation. It gives you access to many scholarships worth a lot of money. GMAT percentile is fairly good even at the score of 88 percentile.
Having scored low in CAT should not detriment the goal lines of the hardworking souls. With so many measures to be taken, even the underdogs can emerge with flying colors. Whatever the general public might say or believe, pursuing your MBA dream is not just about how much you scored in CAT.
Your skill sets, experience personality, and positivity lead the way to a successful career. Keep working on all aspects and dive through all the possibilities before you settle down. Be a driven and passionate individual, and you will have the world in your stride!
Related Article :
Top Management Exams you must take in India
Also Read GD Topics:
Online Education – Benefits, and Challenges.
Airport Management Monopoly by Adnani’s
How 2020 will shape 2022
Impact of Covid 19 on global economy.
Why learning Business Analytics is Important?
--- https://mbaroi.in/blog/10-business-and-leadership-books-that-help-mba-students-succeed/
Being an MBA graduate is an expensive idea, certainly. With the developments that took place in 2020 due to the prevailing pandemic; there is a stronger reason to think before being an MBA graduate. While accomplishing an MBA degree to be the top manager of a leading company is the right step towards your goal, your ‘skillsets’ are what it takes to move you up the ladder finally. Skills take a long time to sink into one’s personality and propel you to the development path.
Some people may be born with some abilities but others need to practice, in order to acquire important skills, through reading and other means. Reading gives you an opportunity to think through other people’s experiences and motivations. Sometimes simple things like insights about human nature, acquired through fiction and poetries may make all the difference in relating with people and their minds.
The reading experiences can boost the emotional IQ, which in turn grows empathy. Empathy is one important leadership skill that helps create understanding, motivation, and efficiently setting organizational goals, etc.
1. How to Win Friends and Influence People
Written by Dale Carnegie and published in 1936, more than 30 million copies of this book were sold worldwide. It is one of the best sellers of all time and named in the list of 100 most influential books in Time’s Magazine. This is a classic book on human behavior and relationships. The book is an incredibly detailed summary of how to connect with people, be likable improve relations to crack deals in the business.
Business owners can apply the knowledge from the book in handling clients in various situations. It is about a holistic perspective about interpersonal effectiveness and being able to express ideas in ways that are unheard of.
2. The 7 Habits of Highly Effective People
Stephen Covey’s bestseller, ‘The 7 Habits of Highly Effective People’ released in the year 1989. The book presents the methodology of being able to emerge effective in the tasks that one undertakes. The book emphasizes how one needs to align oneself to “true north” principles.
This popular book has sold more than 25 million copies worldwide since the year of its publication. The book’s audio version was the first non-fiction best highest selling audio-book in U.S.A’s publishing history.
He promotes the concept of “the personality ethic”, which according to him means aligning one’s values to timeless principles. While values are internal and subjective, principles are external natural laws. He states about a series of habits that establishes the progression from dependence to independence. ‘The 7 Habits of Highly Effective People’, is considered to be one of the most influential books. The author presents seven habits that have become famous because it ‘works’:
Be Proactive
Begin with the End in Mind
Put First Things First
Think Win-Win
Seek First to Understand, Then to be understood
Synergize
Sharpen the Saw
3. The Five Dysfunctions of a Team
This is a book by Patrick Lencioni, a consultant, and speaker. It came into circulation in 2002.‘The Five Dysfunctions of a Team’, has a transformative impact on readers. These dysfunctions are persistent in most firms. It may seem difficult to pinpoint the root causes of the problems, but the book helps identify these dysfunctions by name. The book is a self-help guide to learn and address the root cause of the problems to reach full potentials.
4. The Innovator’s Dilemma
‘The Innovator’s Dilemma’, by Clayton Christensen describes how successful and outstanding companies doing everything right can still lose their market to new and unexpected competitor’s rise. The book talks about the concepts of ‘sustaining innovation’ and ‘disruptive innovation’, that creates a new market and value network that disrupts already existing market and substitutes it with an existing product.
The book is about the way leaders can solve innovator’s dilemma by the formation of subsidiaries. It helps clear the dilemma and solve the problems. The book received the ‘Global Business Book Award and was called the best business book of the year in 1997.
5. On Becoming a Leader
The author of the book Warren Bennis is a top speaker on management. He is also called the ‘Dean of Management gurus’ in Forbes Magazine. The book released in 1989. The book educates that the leader needs to be a combination of experience, self-knowledge, and personal ethics. The author believes that leaders are not born they are made. The book is an essential insight for countless leaders.
6. Shoe Dog:  A Memoir by the Creator of NIKE
Shoe Dog is a memoir written by Nike co-founder Phil Knight. The book was published in April 2016 and was ranked 5th in New York Times in ‘Best Seller List of Business Books’ in 2016. Bill gates called it one of his favorite books and an amazing tale. It is a chronicle of the history of Nike, its early struggles and evolution into one of the most profitable companies of the world.‘Shoe Dog’ shows how persistence is the key in the face of uncertainty.
This is the story of how an empire was built, the extent to which Phil was emotionally engaged, and how he grew as a human being with the company in which he invested.
7. Financial Intelligence
Managers are expected to utilize financial data while making decisions so that they can appropriately allocate resources. But managers hardly know much about balance sheets, liquidity ratios, and return on investment. Financial Intelligence is a book by author Karen Berman and Joe Knight published in 2006.
The book aims at supporting managers with practical plans for improvement, filled with entertaining stories, financial knowledge, and confidence for everyday work. Karen Berman and Joe Knight are the founders of the Los Angeles-based Business Literacy Institute. According to Inc. magazine, this is one of “the best, clearest guides to the numbers”. The book is a must read for the decision makers in businesses.
8. Swim With The Sharks Without Being Eaten Alive
Harvey Mackay wrote this book in 1988 and this was his first book. The book remained a best seller for 54 weeks on New York Times and sold over 5 million copies. Harvey Mackay in his chapters of this book advices on helping your children succeed. This 100% actionable book’s central theme is that the goals can be achieved by taking a genuine interest in understanding other people and your customers.The book also deals with the lessons on how to Outsell, Outmanage, Outmotivate & Outnegotiate.
9. Thinking, Fast and Slow
‘Thinking, Fast and Slow’, is one of the best-selling business books published during 2011 by Daniel Kahneman. The book won 2012 National Academies Communication Award for best creative work. The book is a summary of research analysis of Kahneman. Reading this book helps readers approach their plans and opinions with a greater understanding. Daniel Kahneman has attempted to clarify the irrational functioning of the human brain.
He seeks to eliminate human errors of judgment and provides useful means of communication to provide improved abilities to detect such mistakes. He takes the reader on a tour to explain the two ways brain thinks. One is fast, intuitive, and emotional, and the second is slower, deliberative, and logical.
10. The Hard Thing About Hard Things
Ben Horowitz is the author of ‘The Hard Thing About Hard Things’. This is a book about startups published in March 2014. Ben is an American businessman, investor, blogger, author, and co-founder for Andreessen Horowitz.
He is Silicon Valley’s most respected technology entrepreneur. Ben Horowitz’s book analyzes the problems faced by leaders in their day to day work. The book has a lot of his trademark humor and straight talk. This is an invaluable book for both management veterans and aspiring MBAs both.
It is a book about acknowledging priorities, treating people fairly, decision making in absence of data, and much more. It offers crucial guidance on building and running startups.
Now ChatGPT can do what MBAs were doing in Business Analytics
--- https://mbaroi.in/group-discussion
--- https://mbaroi.in/group-discussion/#dogd
--- https://mbaroi.in/mba-coaching/best-cat-coaching-institutes/
Top CAT Coaching Institutes in India
CAT Coaching Institutes
CAT Coaching Institutes in India
Examination-oriented tuitions have a special place for those who look forward to cracking prestigious MBA entrances like CAT, MAT, XAT, CMAT, GMAT, NMAT, ATMA, IIFT, IBSAT, SNAP, etc. With only a few seats available for reputed MBA degrees/diplomas, and a very high number of aspirants, the competition quotient goes very high up when it comes to fighting for MBA seats. Cracking an MBA entrance with a good score can be tough, therefore students to seek external help to deliver their best.
The question that every MBA aspirant encounters when choosing a coaching institute is, how to find a good place to learn. The key deciding factors are:
Location,
Fee structure,
Reputation
Teaching staff
Quality study material
Support in the second stages of selection (Group Discussion, PI and WAT)
To address this challenge of finding a good coaching institute for appropriate guidance, you can browse through the below list of coaching Institutes in India. They are professionally well-qualified and well-informed Coaching Institutes. The team of teachers and their experts back the students with a huge support in preparing well and scoring high.
This is a consolidated list of some excellent coaching institutes of the country. Their tips, tricks and approaches to solve and comprehend the questions are specifically targeted at increasing the speed and accuracy in the exams. The teachers who are the subject matter experts of their area can give students some in-depth understanding of cracking entrance exam patterns and syllabus.
Also Read: Group Discusiion Topics
List of Top CAT Coaching Institutes in India
Also Read: Top MBA Colleges
Entrance exams are the entry gate to your MBA career goals. Lakhs of students appear for the entrance tests each year. Cracking an exam requires only hard work, smart study and good guidance. Coaching centers help you with a proper plan and strategy to fare well in the exams. Coaching institutes provide you with a study environment to exchange ideas and information. Big MBA entrance exams exert a lot of pressure on the applicants’ mind. Being well prepared enhances your confidence and improves the capability to handle difficult questions peacefully. Do not be a part of mad rush, refer to the above list, find a suitable Institute for yourself and steadily carve your way to your dreams.
Top MBA Entrance Exams
Admission in IIM without CAT
Fees of top mba colleges in India
How to Prepare for MAT?
--- https://mbaroi.in/schedule-online-interview/
Schedule Online Interview
--- https://mbaroi.in/blog/20-ai-prompts-you-will-need-to-know-as-manager/
Is managing a team an easy task? No, right! But can it be made effortless? Sure! With the rise of advanced technology, everything has become kind of simple than before so why not use tech to make a manager’s life smooth? This blog will cover AI prompts that every manager must use in their day-to-day life. By using AI-driven prompts effectively, managers can save time, boost productivity, and improve team dynamics. Here are 20 AI prompts you need in daily life as manager to simplify your tasks and become more effective leaders.
A. Communication Made Easy: 20 AI Prompts You Need in Daily Life as Manager
To make Minutes Of Meetings or meeting summaries, use this (the above given) prompt to get structured meeting highlights, decisions, and actionable tasks. AI tools like ChatGPT, Gemini, and Otter.ai, can get you summaries, saving you time and energy.
Clients always hit managers asking ‘What’s the update’. Instead of drafting a non-professional email, try AI. These tools will generate clear and concise emails to show the client that you’re committed to project progress. Also, the prompt should include all the processes you’ve covered and are yet to cover to give a clear idea to the client regarding the project update.
This prompt helps managers to keep weakly track of their team members. With regular updates, the team aligns. As a manager, you don’t have to draft emails for every team member, asking for updates, just put this prompt to generate a concise, engaging weekly email.
Managers are supposed to manage people but they often struggle to give constructive, impactful feedback. In scenarios like this, AI will help you to create a template to make the review process smoother. This is made specifically for key performance indicators (KPIs) and strengths and weaknesses of team members individually.
There are AI-driven analysis tools out there that provide data on skills and help to develop skills with learning programs. With tools like LinkedIn Skills Insights, managers can see specific skill gaps that may be hindering team productivity. And in return, managers with AI can make targeted development plans.
Prompts like this will get managers recommended training programs from AI based on industry trends and skill gaps in the team. You can try for individual development needs as well. If you detailed your prompt according to your industry or sector, AI will also give you customised training and development strategy.
B. Productivity and Time Management: 20 AI Prompts You Need in Daily Life as Manager
As a manager, it is your role to ensure everyone in the team knows what to expect from the project and who is responsible for which part. With AI, you can design effectual agendas to cover all necessary points that will reduce the chance of miscommunication among each other. Also, delegation of work will more streamlined and efficient.
AI has now reached the place where it can analyze your data and give you solutions for productivity drops. It can also give you the reasons as well why the team’s productivity has dropped. And share possible solutions like resource reallocation, process accommodation, or team bonding activities.
Even the best of the managers or consultants lack in cost-cutting without sacrificing quality. So, if you are looking to reduce project costs, ask AI. These AI tools are able to gauge your current budgets and offer realistic yet innovative strategies for cost-saving.
This is another prompt that will help out managers. This works with work management platforms as well such as Trello or Asana. What does AI offer after this prompt? It breaks down complex projects into manageable tasks that can easily be completed within deadlines.
C. Team Management and Collaboration: AI Prompts You Need in Daily Life as Manager
If you are looking to bond your team members more with team-building activities and have no idea what to do. Then, just use the prompt written above and get creative team-building exercises. For both in-person activities and virtual exercises.
Start your Monday morning with a great message that you don’t have to search anywhere else. Just put this prompt in an AI tool and you are good to go. A little team appreciation works wonders in being productive.
Conflict is inevitable in any workplace. AI can generate professional, empathetic responses tailored to various conflict scenarios, helping managers address issues quickly while maintaining a positive work environment. Now, you don’t have to handle team disputes on your own, because AI can do it for you!
D. Data-Driven Decision Making: 20 AI Prompts You Need in Daily Life as Manager
Tools like Tableau, SurveySparrow, and more are helpful in analyzing survey data. These AI tools make it easier for managers to recognize patterns and identify actionable areas for employee improvement. A manager can take specific initiatives to improve employee satisfaction.
Marketing data analysis can be time-consuming. AI can quickly evaluate which parts of a campaign were most effective, offering data-backed suggestions to improve future efforts. While uploading the prompt in the AI tool, make sure you also put data so that the tool can analyse each and every aspect and give your accurate result.
AI tools are capable of workforce planning. So, use them to get predictions on team workload based on previous/past data and upcoming projects. Pertaining to work pressure, it’ll anticipate staffing needs to avoid burnout and overwork.
E. Staying Ahead of the Curve: AI Prompts You Need in Daily Life as Manager
AI will analyze your competition’s data, trends, and insights after you use this prompt. This helps managers to be more informed and adapt strategies if they are lagging behind. There are AI tools for competitor analyses such as Sprout Social, Ahrefs, and more.
As a manager, you need to keep track of your industry’s trends and be active while networking. AI tools like Google Alerts or Feedly can fetch you event lists that are relevant to your sector. So, be active while using AI tools because these will not only make your life easy but also helps you to move forward in your career.
Several AI-powered dashboards provide real-time updates on project KPIs. Tools like Microsoft Power BI or Google Data Studio help managers watch progress and make adjustments as per the data shown by AI to stay on track.
There are times when your projects might hit roadblocks but answering in the right yet professional way can help you to get out of this situation with a client. For that simply use AI and put up this prompt. You will have thoughtful responses in no time that’ll help to reassure clients about the work being done and in progress.
AI has become important not only for managers but for people all around. This blog talks about 20 AI prompts you need in daily life as manager. Using these prompts will streamline communications in order to enhance productivity and amplify decision-making. With AI-driven prompts, managers can stay organized, save plenty of time, and make more decisions based on strategies.
Also read: https://mbaroi.in/blog/future-trends-of-management-education/ , https://mbaroi.in/blog/national-green-hydrogen-mission-gd-topic/  ,                       https://mbaroi.in/blog/clicks-vs-bricks/ ,                                                                     https://mbaroi.in/blog/work-life-balance/
Changing Perspective of Literacy in Current Scenario
--- https://mbaroi.in/about-us/
MBAROI.IN works day and night to create a better tomorrow for management aspirants and helps them to grow in the corporate world. Our primary aim is to upraise and make the aspirant smarter so that they can get more out of life with MBAROI.IN services.
MBAROI.in is executed by a team of professionals, pioneers in education and technology. Primarily the venture is focussed on leveraging management education in India. Emphasis is on adlibbing business education and bringing together students, institutions, and other stakeholders.
Our relentless dedication towards innovation in the education industry helps us to develop a couple of tools. Those tools will not only help management aspirants rather students from any stream, and various institutions for judging the self-performance and enabling them to foster better in life.
MBAROI.IN is driven by a 30+ member’s young team, we cover 1000+ Indian Business Schools and many tools to find out the weaknesses and strengths of students and institutions.
MBAROI.IN is a Brand Name owned by Daddysdata Analytica Inc.
Our contribution towards student's community.
Alliance with institutions.
Offering may be in the form of scholarships, and through the numerous other ways in which we involve with society.
Our Vision
Our vision is to create a platform to help students to make faster and informed decisions and improve their managerial skills while increasing our positive social impact & at the same time helping business schools in doing better.
We work with utmost integrity: Directing our tasks with integrity and with respect for the students, institutions, and environments our business traces have always been at the heart of our corporate responsibility.
--- mailto:info@mbaroi.in
Failed to fetch.
--- https://www.instagram.com/mbaroi.in/
--- https://mbaroi.in/terms-and-condition/
Our Terms And Condition
This Terms of Service Agreement (the "Agreement") governs your use of this
website, [MBAROI.IN ]
. This Agreement includes, and incorporates by this
reference, the policies and guidelines referenced below. [MBAROI ] reserves
the right to change or revise the terms and conditions of this Agreement at any time
by posting any changes or a revised Agreement on this Website. [MBAROI]
will alert you that changes or revisions have been made by indicating on the top of
this Agreement the date it was last revised. The changed or revised Agreement will
be effective immediately after it is posted on this Website. Your use of the Website
following the posting any such changes or of a revised Agreement will constitute
your acceptance of any such changes or revisions. [MBAROI] encourages
you to review this Agreement whenever you visit the Website to make sure that you
understand the terms and conditions governing use of the Website. This Agreement
does not alter in any way the terms or conditions of any other written agreement you
may have with [MBAROI] for other products or services. If you do not agree to
this Agreement (including any referenced policies or guidelines), please immediately
terminate your use of the Website.
--- https://mbaroi.in/contact-us/
Contact us
info@mabroi.in
Newsletter
--- https://mbaroi.in/privacy-policy/
By email: contact@mbaroi
By visiting this page on our website: https://mbaroi.in/
By phone number: +91 99822 28773
Our Privacy Policy
Last updated: January 07, 2022
This Privacy Policy describes Our policies and procedures on the collection, use and disclosure of Your information when You use the Service and tells You about Your privacy rights and how the law protects You.
We use Your Personal data to provide and improve the Service. By using the Service, You agree to the collection and use of information in accordance with this Privacy Policy. This Privacy Policy has been created with the help of the Privacy Policy Template
For the purposes of this Privacy Policy:
Account: means a unique account created for You to access our Service or parts of our Service.
Company (referred to as either "the Company", "We", "Us" or "Our" in this Agreement) refers to https://mbaroi.in/, 711, 712 7th floor Mansarovar Plaza, Jaipur, Rajasthan, India..
Cookies are small files that are placed on Your computer, mobile device or any other device by a website, containing the details of Your browsing history on that website among its many uses.
Country refers to: Rajasthan, India
Device means any device that can access the Service such as a computer, a cellphone or a digital tablet.
Personal Data is any information that relates to an identified or identifiable individual.
Service refers to the Website.
Service Provider means any natural or legal person who processes the data on behalf of the Company. It refers to third-party companies or individuals employed by the Company to facilitate the Service, to provide the Service on behalf of the Company, to perform services related to the Service or to assist the Company in analyzing how the Service is used
--- https://mbaroi.in/disclaimer/
Our Disclaimer Policy
The information contained in this website is for general information purposes only.
The information is provided by [https://mbaroi.in/], a property of [https://mbaroi.in/].
While we endeavour to keep the information up to date and correct, we make no
representations or warranties of any kind, express or implied, about the completeness,
accuracy, reliability, suitability or availability with respect to the website or the
information, products, services, or related graphics contained on the website for any
purpose. Any reliance you place on such information is therefore strictly at your own
risk.
In no event will we be liable for any loss or damage including without limitation,
indirect or consequential loss or damage, or any loss or damage whatsoever arising
from loss of data or profits arising out of, or in connection with, the use of this
website.
Through this website you are able to link to other websites which are not under the
control of [https://mbaroi.in/]. We have no control over the nature, content and
availability of those sites. The inclusion of any links does not necessarily imply a
recommendation or endorse the views expressed within them.
Every effort is made to keep the website up and running smoothly. However,
[https://mbaroi.in/] takes no responsibility for, and will not be liable for, the website
being temporarily unavailable due to technical issues beyond our control.
--- https://mbaroi.in/cancellation/
Our Cancellation Policy
If you want to cancel the Request for some reason, you can request a cancellation by contacting us with the details of your order. Cancellation request will only be processed if the order has not been dispatched from our side. Once the order is dispatched, it cannot be cancelled. The orders are usually dispatched within 24 hours of successful payment. Please note that a cancellation request does not guarantee the cancellation of your order. For security reasons, we require you to contact us through the mobile number or email address used while ordering. MBAROI  reserves the right to reject a request for cancellation.
--- https://mbaroi.in/refund-policy/
Our Refund Policy
In case of cancellations or returns, we will send you an email to notify you that we have received your returned item. We will also notify you of the approval or rejection of your refund. If you are approved, then your refund will be processed, and a credit will automatically be applied to your credit card or original method of payment, within a certain amount of days.
--- https://mbaroi.in/events/
Upcoming Event
Past Event
Mini MBA in Marketing
Time:  11:00 AM - 12:30 PM
Expert:  Prof. Lavina Khilnani
NO COST
A certificate will be issued to Attendees.
Students who are graduates or in their final year of graduation are eligible for the program.
ISB - Case Study Contest
Registration Closing - 15th August 2022
Case Submission Deadline: 19th August 2022, 9:00 AM
Shortlist Announcement: 19th August 2022, 08:00 PM
Venue:-    Online (Zoom)
Expert:- Mr. Vinay Modi
Date:- 26th of Nov 2021
Time:- 12:00 Noon to 1:00 PM
Trainers:- Dr. Kamal Kishore Sharma (Ph.D. IIM-A)
--- https://mbaroi.in/group-discussion/#typegd
--- https://mbaroi.in/group-discussion/#criteriagd
--- https://mbaroi.in/best-cat-coaching-institutes/
--- https://mbaroi.in/blog/what-is-group-discussion/
Group Discussion consists of two words; group and discussion.
It is a type of discussion where a group of people come together to share their ideas on a particular topic. For a better understanding of “What is Group Discussion”, we need to know what actually these 2 words mean ‘Group’ and ‘Discussion’.
A group is a collection of people who have something in common or work together for a common goal. Discussion is a process where 2 or more people exchange their thoughts and ideas on a given topic or subject matter.
Note: A Person’s personality, behavior, and thoughts while working in a group are evaluated through group discussions.
It is one of the important tools used by schools, colleges, or institutions. To select candidates for admissions, scholarships, jobs, etc., where a topic is presented to the group members for discussion.
The panelists sit there to notice and judge their intellectual, social, leadership, and communicative behaviors. They do this to compare perspectives and understand personality traits or skills that they desire.
For recruitments in MNC jobs, admission in some Institutions and B- Schools, campus placements GD interviews are more often relied on scaling your knowledge in the respective field and your capabilities as a leader or a member. Evaluation is in the form of a report that is prepared by the panelists at the end of the discussion.
Related Topics: 10+ Trending Group Discussion Topics
Process of Group Discussion
Applicants will be informed about the GD topic which will discussed among the group of candidates for a fixed duration. A little time is also allotted to enable them to gather ideas and information on the said topic. The time is limited so it is left upon the group to manage the time during the discussion.
Here are few personality traits that are appreciated by the panel:
Leadership skills
Team building skills
Logical and reasoning ability
Initiative
assertiveness
Motivational skills
Thinking out of the box
The reason why you are put through GDs by the institutes even after testing your technical and conceptual skills is to know if you fit well in their environment. How you interact and learn from the people around you and to see how as a manager in future, you can excel.
The companies conduct GDs to know more about your personality. They primarily want to focus on how you communicate with other people, how open-minded are you, your participation skills and how can you contribute to the groups of organizations.
So prepare for GD by working on your verbal communication, adherence to the norms, cooperation, and non-verbal behaviors.
How to Crack a GD?
Be Positive
Having a positive attitude reflects confidence. But do not be dominating in the process of establishing your point. Be sure of using positive gestures and language through the discussion.
If you have a fair knowledge of the topic assigned, go ahead and initiate the discussion. Having a lesser understanding of the subject may also get you caught, so take a step ahead to make an initiative and with a well thought out start, you can create the right impression.
Maintainingeye contact with the members of the group throughout the conversation gets a positive vibe to the evaluators. When you fail to make eye contact with your listeners, you look less believable, and confident. People stop looking at you and stop listening.
Let Others Also Speak
Do notinterrupt someone while speaking, instead make your notes and discuss once the person has finished. Try to get quiet members included in the discussion by asking then their opinions.
Listen
Having good listening ability pays off. Understanding exactly what others are pointing to makes the point clear to frameanintelligible conversation. When it is your chance to speak, be polite, and sensible.
Do Not Get into Excess Details
Keep your points precise and try to sum up your subject analysis with sufficient words. Since there is time limit avoid moving off the track from the topic and goal. Always try to get the conversation back on track. This will reflect upon your abilities to stay focused.
Finally, structure and summarize all the points to present your final take on the subject.
Do’s and Don’ts in Group Discussion
Top MBA Colleges for CMAT | Fees, Placements, Expected Cutoffs and More
--- https://mbaroi.in/talk-to-current-student/
Talk To Current Student
Talk to Current Student
--- https://mbaroi.in/cat-previous-year-papers/
--- https://mbaroi.in/blog/#content
ChatGPT vs. AutoGPT: Comparing Two Advanced Language Models from OpenAI
Sri Lanka Economic Crisis
QS Global MBA Rankings for Executive MBA Colleges in the World – 2024 | IIM Bengaluru Tops in India
--- https://mbaroi.in/blog/#
CAT 2024 Exam Notification is Out – All You Need to Know About CAT 2024
--- https://mbaroi.in/blog/when-is-the-right-time-to-pursue-an-mba/
Deciding when to undertake a Master in Business Administration (MBA) is a major milestone on the road of a career. The timing of this step might affect professional growth, financial stability, and career opportunities. An MBA is beneficial since it offers a competitive edge, networking opportunities, and strategic ideas. However, it is essential to evaluate various personal factors and aspects of the market to understand when it would be appropriate to enrol.
1. Analysis of Work Experience
Work experience tops several listicles when it comes to important factors in an MBA’s timing. Most good business schools look for candidates who have attained some degree of professional exposure, as this is key in enhancing one’s learning outcome and enriching the discussion in the classroom. The Graduate Management Admission Council (GMAC) quotes an average professional experience of four years for applicants of full-time MBA programs.
However, it varies with respect to the type of program.
Full-time MBA: Typically requires about four years of experience.
Part-time MBA: Candidates tend to have more experience, averaging 6.5 years.
Executive MBA (EMBA): Candidates typically have 14 years of work experience.
Someone with little or no experience may find it difficult to grasp some of the advanced work taught. A person with loads of experience might consider an MBA curriculum redundant.
2. Favorable Economic Conditions.
The economic environment, in almost all instances, exerts influence on admissions into MBA programs. Historically, during economic downturns, applications rise, as the career professional seeks to improve credentials to enhance job opportunities. In 2024, there was an increase in MBA applications, computed at 12%, resulting from a reversal of a two-year decline. This rise in applications could be attributed to the uncertainty in the white-collar job market that had professionals seeking higher qualifications.
Likewise, the Financial Times report indicated a rise of 13.2% in applications for MBA programs, especially on the part of candidates from technology and consulting domains. Such professionals, facing an onslaught of layoffs and postponed job offers, find an MBA useful as a security blanket while considering different careers. Therefore, market conditions should play a deciding role for prospective applicants considering an MBA.
3. Considerations of Age and Career Stage
Simply stated, certain age and career progression criteria indicate the right time for pursuing an MBA.
For full-time students, the average age is typically 27 years.
For part-time students, the average age is about 29 years.
For EMBA candidates, the average age is generally 39 years or older.
Those in their late twenties or early thirties generally would use their MBA to get an early career push or shift industries, while those much more experienced use their MBA to hone their leadership skills or transition into more executive roles. An MBA can be a powerful agent of change for anyone in their late twenties or early thirties. However, for those in the late thirties or forties, an EMBA may be better able to fulfill their career goals.
Financial Considerations and ROI
An MBA is a significant investment financially, costing anywhere from $50,000 to over $200,000 for the very best. This makes it very important to assess the return on investment or ROI.
According to reports from the National University, it was shown that, an MBA graduate earns approximate increases in salary to the tune of 46%, that is, $41,000 more a year. Financial returns vary significantly, depending on the industry of choice, the specialization pursued, and the state of the employment market upon completion of their MBA.
Individuals considering this path must weigh these factors heavily. If this is an opportunity for a great increase in salary and career advancement, then the cost is justified. If, however, the market for job opportunities seems unsure, put off entrance into the program until the climate changes.
4. Alignment of Personal and Professional Goals
Your personal and professional objectives must align at the point of an MBA. Leadership, career advancement, or complete industry-switch aspirants have often benefited from this. One who is happy with their current path may not find the degree quite as relevant.
Ask yourself:
Are you trying to switch industries?
Do you want to hold managerial or executive positions?
Will the MBA skill set and networking be any good for your purpose?
If yes, then maybe it is the right time. If otherwise, then gaining more experience or considering other educational options may be in your best interest.
5. Choosing the Right Program
The unique format of an MBA program can also determine the ideal time to start. Broadly speaking, three options are available:
Full-Time MBA: best suited to those seeking full immersion and career changing; requires taking a career break.
Part-Time MBA: for working professionals who want to juggle both work and academics.
Executive MBA (EMBA): for higher-ups with several years of working experience looking to hone leadership skills.
Part-time MBA applications appear to have swelled, evidencing a clear trend toward flexible learning. Where keeping up with a job while studying is imperative, a part-time or online study might fare better than the traditional full-time approach.
Conclusion on When Is the Right Time to Pursue an MBA?
The right time for an MBA depends on the individual factors. Work experience, the economic situation, financial capabilities, and personal aspirations all form the calculus. Data in recent times suggest that professionals are moving towards an MBA during economic crises to hedge their careers for the future”. With this thought comes how to go about it strategically and with enough planning. Those with solid career intentions, adequate work experience, and financial readiness will reap the most benefit from an MBA. Judicious consideration will ensure that this investment becomes synonymous with the long-term growth and success of the professional.
Best Books for CMAT Preparation 2025
--- https://mbaroi.in/blog/cmat-2025-result-out/
The CMAT 2025 results are finally out, marking a crucial moment for MBA and PGDM aspirants across India. Conducted by the National Testing Agency (NTA), CMAT is one of the most sought-after entrance exams, determining admission to top B-schools. With thousands of candidates competing for a spot in premier management institutes, the release of results sets the stage for the next phase—college applications, group discussions, and personal interviews. If you appeared for CMAT 2025, it’s time to check your score, analyze your prospects, and plan your next steps strategically. Read on to learn how to check your results and expected cutoffs!
How to Check CMAT 2025 Result.
Here are a few easy steps to check your CMAT 2025 result:
Visit the official website: cmat.nta.nic.in
Click the CMAT 2025 Scorecard link.
Enter application ID, date of birth, and security code.
Hit on ‘Submit’ Your scorecard will appear on the screen.
Download and print it for future reference.
Check out – Top MBA Colleges in Jaipur Accepting CMAT 2025
Details Mentioned in CMAT Scorecard
Candidate’s name and roll number
Section-wise scores (Quantitative Techniques, Logical Reasoning, Language Comprehension, General Awareness, Innovation & Entrepreneurship)
Total score
Percentile ranking
Qualifying status
CMAT 2025 Cutoff: The Expected Scenarios
The scores for cutoffs keep changing every year regarding the level of difficulty of the given exam with the number of students appearing in it. The reported CMAT cut-offs for the leading B-schools are given below:
Also check – Top 50 MBA Colleges in India
What Next After the CMAT 2025 Result?
Following the announcement of results for the CMAT, the candidates may need to follow the steps as mentioned below:
(a) Compare scores with expected cutoffs of the target colleges.
(b) Apply based on the score he/she would get at respective B-schools.
(c) Prepare for GD-PI: Almost all colleges will conduct Group Discussion (GD) and Personal Interviews (PI) for final admissions.
(d) Submits Document: Make sure he/she has all the required documents such as scorecard, marksheet, identity proof, etc.
The Valid Score of CMAT 2025
Thus, the CMAT score shall be treated as valid during one academic session, applied by the candidate for MBA/ PGDM admissions of the 2025-26 sessions.
Statistics for CMAT 2025
Total Candidates Appeared: it is around 80,000-90,000, which is expected this year.
Difficulty Level: Moderate to tough
Top Scorer (Expected): About around 345-350 marks
The CMAT 2025 result is crucial for MBA aspirants. Candidates should check their score very carefully because they then need to apply as per different colleges. Also, preparations for GD-PI rounds should begin just after the results are declared.
Stay updated with the latest information on the official website: https://exams.nta.ac.in/CMAT/
--- https://mbaroi.in/blog/mba-in-technology-management/
Technology is changing at a dazzling pace, and industries are requiring experts who can link management with technology. An MBA in Technology Management prepares people for operations and even business life, entering the advances in technology.
Why Choose an MBA in Technology Management?
Provides Students of technology-oriented industries in leadership and managerial qualities.
Facilitates professional understanding of burgeoning technologies and their application to businesses.
This is a high requirement for techno managers across various industries like IT, telecom, and fintech.
Top Colleges for MBA in Technology Management in India (2025)
Here, in the following table, we provide a comprehensive list of colleges that offer an MBA in Technology Management along with the fees and placement details.
Also Read – Top 50 MBA College in India | MBA Colleges in Jaipur
Eligibility and Admission Process
A bachelor’s degree with a minimum 50% marks (45% for reserved categories).
Final year graduate students can also apply.
The MBA in Technology Management is designed to incorporate both business principles and current technology. The subjects included in the curriculum are as follows:
Technology and Innovation Management
IT Strategy and Governance
Business Analytics and Data Science
Digital Transformation and AI in Business
Cybersecurity and Risk Management
Cloud Computing and Blockchain in Business
Internet of Things (IoT) and Smart Enterprises
Sustainable Tech Solutions
FinTech and Financial Innovations
Agile and Lean Methodologies
Career Opportunities and Salary Trends
An MBA in Technology Management provides openings in numerous career paths, each in the tech-centric domains. Below are some significant roles and salary trends:
Greater-Scope of MBA in Technology Management
Rise in Demand- Companies are spending a lot of money on efforts to digitally transform themselves, thus creating a need for technology managers.
Global Opportunities- Companies across the world demand specialist knowledge in AI, blockchain, cloud computing, and Big Data.
Scope for Entrepreneurship- Graduates can set up technology startups or create new business solutions.
An MBA in Technology Management is an excellent choice for professionals seeking leadership roles in the technology-managed business world. Strong demand, packages with high salaries, and prospects across various sectors make this program a guarantee for a successful career. Candidates should keep abreast of the exam schedule, study the best colleges, and choose a specialization depending on their career goals.
9 Tips to Make Your GMAT Preparation More Effective?
--- https://mbaroi.in/blog/career-options-after-an-mba-in-marketing/
An MBA in marketing has thrown the doors wide open for straight and dynamic careers. They are significant contributors to a brand, focusing on how a brand communicates its identity, interacts with customers, and develops a foundation for business prosperity. As businesses become more customers through and through, marketers are no less in demand today than before. Let us have a look at some of the most exciting portals to enter after an MBA in Marketing.
Top Career Options After an MBA in Marketing
Check out – Top 50 MBA Colleges in India | Top MBA Colleges for Placement in India
These managers build the perception of a brand. Under their purview are advertising campaigns, product positioning, as well as market research. All of this is done to ensure that the brand remains constant and appealing. As per a report on LinkedIn, brand managers take home an average annual remuneration of around ₹12-18 lakh in India. Creativity, strategic thinking, and communication skills count highly in this role.
Marketing managers plan marketing strategies to increase the visibility of their brand and amount of sales. They keep an eye on scope and budgets to execute and coordinate different teams for the campaigns. According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, marketing manager roles will grow by 10% by 2030. They are looked at as earning between ₹10-20 lakh per annum in India depending on experience and industry.
Given the prevalence of digital platforms, companies are spending a lot of money on online marketing. Digital marketing managers handle SEO, SEM, and content marketing and develop strategies for social media. They cater to increasing website traffic and online engagement. The Naukri.com report suggests that an experienced digital marketer in India takes away a salary in the region of ₹8-15 lakh per year.
Check out – Top MBA Colleges in Jaipur | Top MBA Colleges in Rajasthan
Market research analysts work on consumer behavior and industry trends. They collect data, evaluate insights, and provide recommendations that help businesses improve marketing strategies, as companies are data-driven. The U.S Bureau of Labor Statistics has projected an 18% increase in demand for market research analysts from now until 2030. In India, the entry-level salary ranges from ₹6-10 lakh per year.
Sales managers oversee the sales teams and set targets while developing sales strategies. They usually work closely with the marketing division to align promotion with sales objectives. According to Glassdoor, the average sales manager salary in India ranges between ₹8-18 lakh per annum. This position requires a strong leader with excellent negotiation skills and a will to achieve.
Product managers supervise product launches, working closely with the appropriate people to develop and market products, researching what customers want, and liaising with engineers and designers to ensure successful product launches. Average salary earnings in PayScale are around ₹12-25 lakh per year in India for product managers. This position is analytical thinking, business savvy, and innovative.
Advertising managers design and put into action advertisements across diverse media platforms. They create a part of the creative team, agency, and marketing executives while building advertising. The advertising average annual salary in India ranges from ₹10-18 lakh, as mentioned by Indeed.com. The field is said to be a profession for those keen on storytelling and crazy creativity.
Public relations managers are responsible for the overall maintenance of a good image for a brand. They man media relations and press releases and do crisis management. Communication and networking skills must be excellent. According to AmbitionBox, PR managers earn on average a salary ranging between ₹8-15 lakh per annum in India. Demand for PR professionals has increased with the focus of companies on reputation management.
Business development managers open the road to growth opportunities in their organizations by establishing alliances with other businesses or organizations. They work on issues related to market expansion and increase sources of revenue. According to Naukri.com, business development managers in India earn between ₹9-20 lakh per annum. Interpersonal skills are a must in this role, in addition to business acumen.
Customer relationship management is a work dedicated to building and maintaining east cooperative customer relations. While it is true that taking good care of clients equals solving problems in this career, it finds value in interacting with customers who are usually interested in the banking, retail, or hospitality industries. The annual salary here is about ₹7-12 lakh, according to Glassdoor statistics.
An MBA in Marketing can open the doors to a variety of careers, which can be highly lucrative. Whether it is the area of brand management, digital marketing, business development, or more, the career path is extensive. The success mantra includes self-awareness of strengths, being in the loop with trends, and continuous improvement. With an effective approach, it would be possible to create a successful journey in marketing and leave a mark.
MBA vs MCA – Which one is better?
--- https://mbaroi.in/blog/mba-career-switcher/
Another post-pandemic demand has grown in the form of MBA career switchers with prospective targets. These can include individuals interested in jobs that have coincidentally either been taken over by some new MBA-enabled fads or types of jobs whose barometers have changed, and thus along with their candidates’ considerations, perspective in the last maybe twenty months or so. In 2025 let’s see how an MBA could help in such cases as a bridge to future professional opportunities.
A Career Switch on an MBA
The surveys revealed that 50% or more joined MBA students to switch their careers. The post-pandemic times have changed the deal for industries, while the professionals are riding on the back of business education to get into fields high on growth. Areas such as technology, healthcare management, and fintech have been inundated with thousands of career switchers holding an MBA.
That trend is being witnessed particularly by mid-career professionals. Those from engineering, sciences, and even arts acquire business savvy through MBA programs that allow them to tone down into leadership roles in new industries.
Also Read  – Top 50 MBA Colleges in India | Top MBA Colleges in Jaipur
Why Professionals Are Making the Switch
Factors prompting the professionals to leave their present jobs and take up an MBA:
Increased Earning Potential – On an average MBA graduates witness an increase of 60% or even higher based on the sector and rank of the business school.
Evolution of Industries – Traditional industries like manufacturing and retail are introducing digital technologies and consequently creating a platform for business leaders who can contribute tech-based insights.
Fewer Opportunities for Growth – Many professionals reach a career ceiling due to lack of managerial skills or industries that have stalled.
An MBA Provides a Good Network – An MBA provides access to an influential alumni base for students and the recruiters from many leading firms.
Industries Most Open to Career Switches for MBAs in 2025
In contrast with other industries, certain industries have been more welcoming to MBA career switchers, especially from unrelated fields. Here are the top industries where career changers are welcome:
Technology – Companies like Google, Amazon, and Microsoft run a constant recruitment drive for managerial and strategic roles for MBA graduates from good b-schools.
Healthcare Management – The global healthcare market is growing at a rate of 10%, which has created a demand for professionals with business acumen.
Finance and Fintech – Digital banking has surged in popularity, and financial institutions are offering recruitment opportunities to MBAs for strategy and operations.
Consulting – For career switchers, McKinsey, BCG, and Bain have remained the favored consulting firms.
Sustainability and ESG (Environmental, Social, and Governance) – The focus of companies is now on sustainability, which has opened up new green business strategy roles.
Read about  – MBA Placements in Top MBA Colleges | Top 100 MBA Colleges in India
Challenges Faced by MBA Career Switchers
Still, with all its advantages, an MBA can also present some challenges in making career transitions:
Competition – Industry experience is of great value to employers.
Higher Education Costs – An MBA is a considerable investment anywhere between ₹10 lakh and ₹50 lakh in tuition fees.
Need for Other Certifications – In some sectors, MBAs might have to supplement the degree with other certification courses, like CFA for finance, PMP for project management.
For an MBA to achieve maximum effectiveness in switching careers, the professional must:
Select the Appropriate Concentration – Focus on subjects such as digital transformation, business analytics, or supply chain management.
Build Practical Experience – Interning, consulting projects, or freelance jobs are great additions to an applicant’s credibility within the new industry.
Use the Network – Networking with alumni and faculty can yield job referrals and mentorship opportunities.
Learn Transferable Skills – Essential mobility across careers demands strong leadership, problem-solving, and strategic thinking skills.
Conclusion: Is an MBA Worth It For Switchers?
One of the best methods to change into a new career is through an MBA. It provides the necessary business acumen and the opportunity to obtain good monetary offers as well as to achieve professional credibility. But careful planning, industry knowledge, and active networking are what will make or break this approach.
For professionals stuck in some job, 2025 and beyond would, therefore, call for an MBA, which can very well be one golden key to their career doors.
--- https://mbaroi.in/blog/how-to-finance-your-mba-mba-admission-guide/
Career acceleration is the purpose of an MBA. But it comes with a price tag. The average cost for an MBA in India is about ₹8-25 lakh, while an overseas degree will cost upwards of $100,000. Financing your MBA is almost important, and here are some ways of funding your studies.
1. Education Loans
Loans are commonly taken to finance an MBA. Education loans are provided by banks and NBFCs with flexible repayment options.
Public Sector Banks: SBI, Bank of Baroda, and Punjab National Bank offer education loans at a lower interest rate. SBI Scholar Loan scheme offers loans under the amount of ₹20 lakh at an interest of 8.15% per annum.
Private Banks: ICICI, HDFC, and Axis banks offer educational loans with interest rates between 9-12%.
NBFCs: Credila, Avanse, and InCred cater to students without collateral. In this case, the interest rate may vary from 11-14%.
International loans: Prodigy Finance and MPOWER Financing assist students who are studying abroad.
Repayment: Most banks would generally offer a moratorium, and repayment will commence six months to a maximum of one year’s completion of the course.
Also Read – Top 50 MBA Colleges in India | Top MBA Colleges in Jaipur
2. Scholarships
Most scholarships render assistance in waiving off some of the financial burdens. Several institutions and organizations offer scholarships on various bases, such as merit, need, or diversity.
ISB Scholarships: Merit-based and need-based scholarships up to ₹5 lakh are provided by ISB.
IIM Scholarships: IIMs provide merit-cum-need-based scholarships ranging from ₹1 to ₹10 lakh.
XLRI Scholarships: Several merit-based and diversity scholarships are available.
National Means Cum Merit Scholarship: For excellent students.
Central Sector Scheme of Scholarships: For the weaker sections of society.
OP Jindal Engineering & Management Scholarship: For management students worth up to ₹1.5 lakh.
Aditya Birla Scholarship: Covers tuition fees for the top B-schools.
Tata Trust Scholarships: Offer financial assistance to meritorious students.
Therefore, by their very nature, an application for a scholarship should give rise to advance preparation. Most institutions consider academic records, leadership skills, and financial need during selection. Deadlines for scholarships differ; it is wiser to apply as soon as possible.
3. Fellowships
All the fellowships provide monetary support and networking opportunities; some also demand in return work obligations.
IIM Fellowships: Research-based with full tuition waivers and stipends.
ISB Research Fellow Program: For those pursuing an academic or consulting career.
Narotam Sekhsaria Fellowship: This is an interest-free loan scholarship awarded to outstanding students.
Stanford Reliance Dhirubhai Fellowship: This pays 80% of tuition for Indian students studying at Stanford GSB.
Fellowships are competitive. Distinguished records and an impressive application are vital.
MBA Placements – IIM Placements | Best MBA Colleges Placement Wise
4. Part-Time Jobs and Assistantships
Some universities offer students part-time jobs. Assistantships in teaching and research are often awarded to fund their studies.
Teaching Assistantships: This is offered by various institutes in India like IIMs, ISB, IITs, etc.
Part-Time On-Campus Job: Students can work up to 20 hours a week on-campus in various countries.
Internships: Having paid internships while doing their MBA will help cover living expenses.
Work and studies can be tough to balance. Good time management makes the difference.
5. Employer Sponsorships
Programs of some employers cover the cost of an MBA. Employees are required to work for the company for a prescribed number of years in return.
Companies Offering Sponsorships: TCS, Infosys, Deloitte, and Goldman Sachs.
Eligibility: Usually, depends on tenure and performance.
Bond Period: Generally between 2-5 years after MBA.
If you’re planning to avail of employer sponsorship, it’s advisable to start talking to HR to discuss your terms.
6. Crowdfunding and Personal Savings
In a way, students can raise funds for their schooling through crowdfunding platforms.
Popular Platforms: Milaap, Ketto, GoFundMe.
Tips for Success: A compelling story with a clear financial breakdown increases the chances of success.
The use of personal savings also comes into play. Planning finances early helps to reduce reliance on loans.
Conclusion – How to Finance Your MBA
An MBA is undoubtedly very expensive but can always be made possible. Loans, scholarships, and fellowships available, along with employer sponsorships, should all be explored. These options should be weighed before arriving at a decision. An ingenious plan will minimize financial hassle and optimize ROI. Start early and select the best funding method for your MBA. With planning, financing your MBA with ease will be a reality.
--- https://mbaroi.in/blog/cmat-2025-answer-key/
The National Testing Agency (NTA) has released the official provisional answer key of the Common Management Admission Test (CMAT) 2025. The candidates who had appeared in the examination may now download the answer key and the response sheet from the official website, which will help them check their performance and raise objections if any.
How to Download the CMAT 2025 Answer Key
Here are the steps to access the answer key:
Visit the NTA CMAT official website, i.e., exams.nta.ac.in/CMAT.
Click on the link for “CMAT 2025 Answer Key”.
Enter your application number and date of birth.
Download the answer key and response sheet.
CMAT 2025 Answer Key Objection-Raising
Candidates may raise challenges on any discrepancies found in the provisional answer key. The window for challenging any discrepancies will remain open until February 2, 2025. To raise an objection
Log into the CMAT portal.
Select the question you want to challenge.
Attach valid supporting documents.
Pay an objection fee of ₹200 (refundable if the challenge is accepted).
NTA will consider all challenges before the final answer key is released.
Exam Overview and Difficulty Level
The CMAT 2025 exam was conducted on January 25, 2025, in two shifts, with around 70,000 candidates appearing for it. The exam had 100 multiple-choice questions divided into five sections:
Quantitative Techniques & Data Interpretation – 20 questions
Logical Reasoning – 20 questions
Language Comprehension – 20 questions
General Awareness – 20 questions
Innovation & Entrepreneurship – 20 questions
The exam was overall rated as easy to moderate. Slightly higher difficulty was rated for Logical Reasoning and General Awareness. Quantitative Techniques was rated as easy.
Scoring and Expected Cutoff
The marking scheme of the CMAT 2025 is as follows:
+04 for correct answers
-01 for wrong answers
Expected cutoffs  and CMAT results for the top B schools:
99+ percentile: 320-340 marks
95+ percentile: 280-310 marks
90+ percentile: 250-270 marks
Results and Next Steps
Final results will be expected in the last week of February 2025. The CMAT scorecard will contain:
Sectional and overall scores
All India Rank (AIR)
Candidates are supposed to check the B-school cut-offs after the result and gear up for the remaining selection processes, including Group Discussions (GD) and Personal Interviews (PI).
The issuance of the CMAT 2025 answer key is an essential step in the process of admission. Candidates should now carefully analyze their options and raise objections if necessary before getting ready for the next part of the selection process. The other thing important to note is to keep checking for relevant dates and any updates on the NTA website so that candidates will be able to act accordingly.
Proven ways to build a successful Startup?
5 Parameters for Choosing the Top MBA College
--- https://mbaroi.in/blog/top-tier1-mba-colleges-in-india/
India hosts a number of well-known MBA schools that are very strong in the Tier 1 category, such as some of the best business colleges in the world. They distinguish themselves for having the best scholarship programs, top placements, and the kind of strong network with industries that is not possible to imitate elsewhere. Institute would shape tomorrow’s business leaders on the face of the earth. They draw vast competition across the globe. But if you want the best of them, here is comprehensive information on the top-tier MBA colleges in India.
Top Tier 1 MBA Colleges of India
Also check – Top 50 MBA Colleges in India | Best Placement MBA Colleges in India
Who then actually falls in the Tier 1 tag in MBA colleges?
For that, Tier 1 MBA colleges must be identified at least this way:
Strong Placements: Companies provide an excellent package, at higher average salary packages paid to their graduates.
Reputation: Ensuring the highest level of academic excellence combined with impactful teaching and strong research in India over social economic subjectsination field is what is known in the news as the respect bestowed upon a business school for the high placement prospects of its students.
Links to Industries: Have engagements with companies and corporate leaders for their project work and internships.
Global Recognition: Accreditation from AACSB, EQUIS, or AMBA, a global nod to their international standards.
They develop critical thinking, innovation, and leadership capacities in all their students, such as their celebrated alumni network, which tends to structured internships, making these leaders’ mentor’ with other young students irrespective of everything from any school.
Check out – Top MBA Colleges Accepting CMAT Score | Top MBA Colleges for Fintech in India
List of the Best Tier 1 MBA Colleges in India
Coming up are the most famous and recognized institutions that students dream to join or consider to be the best in IIMs.
IIM Ahmedabad: first in the 2023 NIRF rankings; it is renowned for its PGP and executive MBA courses. It has an average placement package of between ₹35 LPA. Fun fact: The architecture with red bricks of IIM Ahmedabad has become an iconic trend of Indian education.
IIM Bangalore: Known for its teaching principles and innovative research knowledge-sharing platform. A top choice of global recruiters with many consulting and tech placements.
IIM Calcutta: Artemis Finance Program and second most professional consulting courses in India. Fun fact: IIM Calcutta was the first IIM made in India in 1961.
IIM Lucknow: It normally concentrates more on the area like leadership and sustainability, catering to programs with rural management and also entrepreneurship.
Based in Hyderabad and Mohali. Offers a one-year MBA program tailored for working professionals. ISB ranks among the top 30 in global MBA rankings.
The oldest business school in India, founded in 1949. Known for its strong HR and General Management programs. Alumni are present across diverse industries.
Specializes in fostering entrepreneurial and leadership skills. It also offers excellent international exchange programs with top global universities.
Known for its exceptional return on investment (ROI). FMS offers one of the most affordable MBA programs in India. Despite low fees, placement packages often exceed ₹30 LPA.
Offers MBA programs focused on innovation, technology, and industry integration. Known for its strength in finance, marketing, and analytics specializations.
Stats to Consider
The average placement package at Tier 1 colleges ranges between ₹25–40 LPA, with top recruiters like McKinsey, Amazon, and Google hiring.
Admission is highly competitive. CAT 2023 alone saw over 2.3 lakh applicants competing for a few thousand seats across IIMs.
Fun fact: XLRI Jamshedpur’s lush green campus spans over 40 acres, making it one of the most scenic campuses in India.
Admission Process:
You need to be dedicated as well as thorough with your preparation to be able to enter the gates of a Tier 1 Business School in MBA. Here are a few steps to secure your place here:
Enter the competitive arena draining all one’s abilities: Be a very high scorer in exams like CAT, GMAT, or GRE. For instance, IIM Ahmedabad’s CAT cut-off is often above the 99th percentile.
GDs and Interviews: Demonstrate sound leadership, creativity, and communication skills of problem solving during the selection rounds.
Does education really have a trajectory towards graduation from studies at school?
Getting relevant hands-on experience is also a requirement for most colleges. Getting into an MBA program such as ISB is easier when a candidate has 2-5 years of work experience.
One Motive Behind Tier 1 MBA Colleges is:
Global Network: Alumni from a top institution always rule the companies around the globe.
Opportunities for Learning: Professors at the best level and colleagues with exactly the same level of drive and talent are always available for interaction.
Career Progression: Fortune 500 companies, startups, and even public sector organizations are where graduates spread across the world.
Entrepreneurship: Many alumni of Tier 1 colleges have created successful startups upon graduating. For instance, IIT Delhi and IIM Calcutta alumni launched Flipkart.
Final Thoughts
Maximum selection is one of the most important decisions that will affect one’s careers. Tier 1 colleges in India have had the best education, global exposure, and quality career exposure options to prepare students for life’s hard work, attention, and preparedness, but their results are phenomenal too.
The journey to admission may be challenging, but the rewards make it worth it. With the right preparation, dedication, and guidance, you will be one of the stories of success that these institutions continue to make.
Focus, Prepare and Jump for your dream college; it’s just a step away!
MBA Colleges Without Entrance Exam
--- https://mbaroi.in/blog/xat-result/
The much-awaited moment is here! The XAT 2025 results are officially out, marking an exciting milestone for MBA aspirants across the country. With this announcement, the process of choosing the top-notch business schools that give aspiring managers a ticket to success advances exponentially. The next chapter after this tipping point deals with the unveiling of the full picture and guiding people through the next steps.
How to Check Your XAT 2025 Result
The procedure of assessment of the results of XAT exam is quite simple and convenient. Here is the guide to check your results:
Step One: The first step is to go to the official XAT website, whose address is www.xatonline.in.
Log in using your XAT ID and password.
Acquire the scorecard by downloading it.
Have a soft copy for yours if you are to refer to it in admissions processes.
Your scorecard will throw light on the following things:
The symbolic marking in Decision Making, Quantitative Ability, Verbal & Logical Ability and General Knowledge.
Your percentile and your position in the overall list in your respective subject will be stated.
Candidate details and test information.
Check out – Top MBA Colleges in India Accepting XAT Scores
Understanding How Your Marks in XAT Scorecard Make Sense
To make informed decisions, it’s essential to understand your scorecard:
Sectional Percentiles: Ensure you meet the minimum cutoff for each section as required by your target institutes.
Overall Percentile: This plays a crucial role in determining your eligibility for further selection rounds.
General Knowledge Scores: While not included in the percentile calculation, some institutes consider GK scores during interviews.
Also Read –  Trending GD Topics | Top 50 MBA Colleges in India
What’s Next After XAT Results?
The XAT result is the gateway, but the journey doesn’t end here. Here’s what’s ahead:
Keep updating yourself with the current hot topics and industrial trends
Let mock PIs clarify communications and presentation refinements
Learn more on topics covering decision-based situation and ethical dilemmas, which is usually a prime segment of GD
Dream Institutes: Target the best of the colleges, matching up to your aspirations and your percentile.
Backup Options: Ensure that you have safe choice as soon as the application has a higher chance of getting through in this pool of thousands.
Specialization Preferences: List Institutes as per their faculties and excellence orientation related to your chosen field of study.
Were you under expectations when you saw the result? Worry not. Some other exams-CAT, NMAT, MAT, and others-might help in providing another chance of securing an MBA in some of India’s prominent management institutes.
Key Highlights from XAT 2025
XAT 2025 had many provisions to highlight the year:
Another sector where there is an extreme trend is the Decision-Making Section, which takes into account the logical thinking of a person towards completing the topic and pulling out the questions.
There is a considerable increase in overall number of students as well, which in turn increases the number of people applying to quality MBA programs.
Many were able to score good numbers in QA, which shows how analytically advanced these people are.
Note for Aspirants
Among these, there will be others that succeed at their time of 100 percent- Congrats!
It’s a demon for hard work well paid now and the opening for items.
For the less-covered ones, remember…. This one falls in the way toward a much longer journey. Under such circumstances, the next available system will be to try out various other possibilities.
More than a mere sum of the XAT 2025 Table is dedication and perseverance; although the application may best test the importance of your gender. When you walk out of any of the prestigious B-schools in India XLRI, XIMB, or any other institution, you will take away with you the skills and experiences that will determine how successful you are in the future.
Please take some time to celebrate the moment and then get ready and confident for the next steps. The best is yet to come.
10 Mistakes to Avoid in MBA Application for Admission to Top Business School
--- https://mbaroi.in/blog/cat-2024-result-delcared/
The much-awaited Common Admission Test (CAT) 2024 results have been officially announced by IIM Calcutta on December 19, 2024. Candidates who appeared for the exam can now access their scorecards on the official website iimcat.ac.in. This blog provides all the essential details about the CAT results, steps to check your score, analysis of this year’s results, and guidance on the next steps in the admission process.
Key Highlights of CAT Results 2024
Result Declaration Date: December 19, 2024
Exam Date: November 24, 2024
Conducting Body: IIM Calcutta
Total Candidates Registered: Approximately 3.25 lakh
Total Candidates Appeared: Approximately 2.93 lakh
Test Centers: 389 across India
Steps to Check Your CAT Results 2024
Follow these simple steps to access your scorecard:
Visit the Official Website: Go to iimcat.ac.in.
Login: Enter your User ID and Password.
Access Scorecard: Click on the “CAT 2024 Scorecard” link.
Download: View and download your scorecard for future reference.
Details Mentioned on the Scorecard:
Candidate’s Name and Roll Number
Section-Wise Scaled Scores
Overall Scaled Score
Sectional Percentiles
Overall Percentile
CAT 2024 Exam Analysis
This year, CAT 2024 witnessed a few notable trends:
1. Exam Difficulty:
The overall difficulty level of CAT 2024 was moderate to difficult, with the Quantitative Ability (QA) section being particularly challenging for many candidates. Verbal Ability and Reading Comprehension (VARC) was slightly easier compared to previous years, while Data Interpretation and Logical Reasoning (DILR) had a balanced difficulty level.
2. Attendance Rate:
Out of the 3.25 lakh registered candidates, 2.93 lakh appeared for the test, reflecting a participation rate of 90.2%.
3. Sectional Performance Insights:
VARC: High scoring section for most candidates. Key focus areas included reading comprehension and para jumbles.
DILR: Questions required strong analytical skills, with a mix of familiar and new problem formats.
QA: The toughest section for the majority, with an emphasis on arithmetic and algebra.
4. Percentile Trends:
Candidates achieving scores above 155 were expected to secure a 99+ percentile, making it a competitive year for top scorers.
Understanding CAT Scores and Percentiles
The CAT scorecard includes your raw scores, scaled scores, and percentiles. Here’s a breakdown:
Raw Score: Total marks obtained in the exam, calculated as per the marking scheme (correct answers minus penalties for incorrect ones).
Scaled Score: Adjusted scores to ensure fairness across different exam slots.
Percentile: Indicates the percentage of candidates you outperformed. For example, a 95th percentile means you performed better than 95% of the candidates.
Post-Result Process: What’s Next?
1. Shortlisting by Institutes
After the results, IIMs and other participating institutes will release their shortlists for further admission rounds. These typically include:
Written Ability Test (WAT): A short essay-writing exercise to assess written communication skills.
Group Discussion (GD): A group activity to evaluate teamwork, communication, and analytical abilities.
Personal Interview (PI): A one-on-one interaction to gauge personality, aspirations, and suitability for a management program.
2. Applications to Non-IIM Institutes
Many top B-schools, including SP Jain, MDI, and FMS, accept CAT scores but require separate applications. Check their official websites for specific deadlines and criteria.
Top Colleges Accepting CAT 2024 Scores
IIM Ahmedabad
IIM Bangalore
IIM Kozhikode
Other Renowned B-Schools
Faculty of Management Studies (FMS), Delhi
SP Jain Institute of Management and Research (SPJIMR), Mumbai
Management Development Institute (MDI), Gurgaon
Xavier School of Management (XLRI), Jamshedpur
Institute of Management Technology (IMT), Ghaziabad
Check full list of – MBA Colleges Accepting CAT Scores in India
Interpreting Your CAT Scores
Here’s a general guide to help you assess your score:
99+ Percentile: Likely to secure calls from IIM Ahmedabad, Bangalore, and Calcutta.
95-99 Percentile: Eligible for newer IIMs, SPJIMR, and MDI.
85-95 Percentile: Consider institutes like IMT, TAPMI, and GIM.
Below 85 Percentile: Explore other reputed private B-schools or appear for exams like XAT, NMAT, or MAT.
Strategies to Prepare for WAT, GD, and PI
Written Ability Test (WAT):
Practice essay writing on current topics like AI advancements, climate change, and global economic trends.
Focus on structure, clarity, and conciseness.
Group Discussion (GD):
Stay updated on recent events and trends.
Practice group activities to improve articulation and confidence.
Personal Interview (PI):
Prepare answers for common questions like “Why MBA?”, “Tell me about yourself,” and “Where do you see yourself in 5 years?”
Highlight achievements and work experience effectively.
Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)
1. Can I request a re-evaluation of my CAT score?
No, CAT results are final and cannot be re-evaluated or rechecked.
2. What if I forget my login credentials?
Use the “Forgot User ID/Password” option on the login page to recover your details.
3. Will my raw score be mentioned on the scorecard?
No, only scaled scores and percentiles are displayed on the scorecard.
4. Can I use my CAT score for international MBA programs?
Some international programs, particularly in South Asia and Singapore, may accept CAT scores. Check with individual institutions for confirmation.
--- https://mbaroi.in/blog/how-to-score-higher-in-nmat-2024/
Scoring good or higher in any exam requires you to be more attentive and disciplined. Talking about NMAT exam 2024 is a test conducted by The Graduate Management Admission Council (GMAC). This council administers the national-level Narsee Monjee Management Aptitude Test (NMAT) for admission to the Narsee Monjee Institute of Management Studies (NMIMS) and other B-schools in India. Let’s know How To Score Higher in NMAT 2024 with the MBAROI blog.
If you are someone who’s looking to crack the NMAT 2024 and secure admission to top business schools. Then, you are at the right place. We at MBAROI will help you with all the help needed to secure higher in NMAT 2024. Scoring 240 or above in NMAT is achievable but only with the right strategy, determination, and preparation. Let’s hop on because we will discuss effective section-wise tips, preparation strategies, and key insights to ace the NMAT exam
Understanding the NMAT Exam Structure
As mentioned earlier, this exam is conducted by GMAC and is a computer-based test. Candidates consider it to be moderately difficult. NMAT includes three sections:
Language Skills: 36 questions, 28 minutes.
Quantitative Skills: 36 questions, 52 minutes.
Logical Reasoning: 36 questions, 40 minutes.
The best part about this test is that it has no negative marking. Also, the exam pattern is candidate-friendly; allowing you to select the order of sections, adding flexibility to your exam strategy.
Eight Key Tips to Crack NMAT 2024: Preparation Strategy
Even though there are plenty of tips you will come across, but these are the top eight tips that will bring you closer to your dream score-
Start Early: Start as early as you can. The time is never enough so starting in advance will give you a competitive edge. Six months before the exam is when you should start with the books. This period will help you to study almost everything, revise, practice mock papers, and stay calm on the day of the test.
Understand the Syllabus: During my school days, my principal told me that if you understand the syllabus completely that means half of your preparation is done. I still second that! Familiarize yourself with all the topics under each section. When you know the topics, it becomes easy to learn and grasp knowledge.
Take Mock Tests: This is non-negotiable. No matter how much you think you are prepared for, don’t go to appear NMAT exam without taking mock tests. A timed mock test will make you feel like you are in real exam conditions and that’ll also prepare you for the d-day.
Focus on Accuracy and Speed: Exams mean- giving the right answers and that too on time. Finding a balance between the two is difficult for many students. You can prepare yourself by practicing previous years’ question papers every day to see how much time you take to answer a particular answer. And then based on that work on your weakness.
Utilize Online Resources: This is a world of digitization, so, use it for your benefit. See videos of toppers, and how they’ve cracked the exam. Get free and paid study resources from credible sources. Read more blogs/articles online to improve your language.
Analyze Previous Papers: Examining previous years’ papers will give you an idea about the trends, patterns, and high-weightage topics. Also, remember for any exam, never forget to follow last year’s question papers because the questions come in the same format. Until and unless the conducting body doesn’t announce that the pattern has changed.
Stay Consistent: Start early and stay consistent. This will take you to your goal. Practice regularly to master each concept for the upcoming exam. Regular practice is key to mastering concepts.
Keep a Positive Mindset: Very important! Believe in yourself, you are capable of cracking the exam. Just the right resources and motivation are all that you need.
Section-Wise Tips to Score 240 Above in NMAT
NMAT exam has three sections; the first one is The Language Skills section. Here you will answer questions on grammar, vocabulary, and reading comprehension. To keep all grammar rules and vocab in mind, use flashcards and applications to improve your word bank. Also, learn basics like prepositions, tenses, and sentence correction to score well in the exam. Don’t forget to read comprehension passages daily. For the exam, make a strategy to attempt vocabulary and grammar-based questions first. As these are easier than RCs and the ideal attempt would be 22+ questions, the target score should be 54-57+ marks.
The quantitative skills section includes quizzes on arithmetic, algebra, geometry, and data interpretation. Work on your basics like percentages, profit-loss, and time-speed-distance to ace this part. Polish your skills to interpret graphs and charts quickly to save time in exams. Your exam strategy for the quantitative skill section should be to attempt easy arithmetic questions first, then proceed toward DI and data sufficiency. Ideal question attempts be more than 24 and the target score : 70-75+ marks.
Here are some tips for this section: Logical Reasoning. This part assesses your analytical and verbal reasoning abilities. So, start with practicing decision-making and critical reasoning questions. Then, move to solving puzzles, seating arrangements, and coding-decoding. Since these are complex problems, avoid guesswork in the question. Ideally one should attempt 23+ questions to achieve the target score of 65-70+ marks.
NMAT 2024 Exam Strategy: How to Score 240 Marks
To crack the NMAT Exam 2024, these MBAROI strategies will help you-
Create a Study Plan: Planning will make you stick to a schedule and that’s why you are not going to get distracted from your studies. In your routine, allocate daily time slots for each section to cover all the sections.
Revise Regularly: Every student has weak and strong areas. Revising regularly will give you confidence in stronger areas and strengthen your weak areas. Visit the tough topics often to memorize them by heart.
Use Mock Test Insights: After attempting mock tests, don’t put them in the drawers and forget. Analyze your mock performance and change strategies to make yourself better.
Experiment with Section Order: There’s no universal section. Even though some (including us) might say to attempt easier questions first but you should choose your section at your convenience.
Last-Minute Preparation Tips for NMAT 2024
Revise each and every note till the last second. Don’t read the whole notebook rather make small chits/notes for last-minute revision.
Managing time is difficult in exams so, prepare yourself beforehand. Use stopwatches during practice or mock sessions to gauge an idea about your time management.
Don’t worry about what you have left or what you couldn’t complete while preparing for the NMAT exam. The last moments are not for opening news chapters or topics. This will leave you overwhelmed.
Eating healthy and sleeping well will keep you fresh and energized. Eat proper food, get full sleep to have an active mind during exam.
Now that you have gone through all the strategies to score higher in the NMAT exam 2024, let’s end the blog by saying- ‘You’ve Got This!’
Try your best and relax, overstressing won’t achieve you good marks. But don’t forget to put your hundred percent while preparing and attempting the questions in the exam. Your exam strategy should consist of a mix of smart work, consistent practice, and strategic planning. Boost your chance of success by using the right resources, prepared strategies, effective planning, and practical tips. Also, you have more than one attempt! And, every attempt brings you closer to your goal.
Good luck on your NMAT journey by MBAROI.
Read other GD topics- https://mbaroi.in/blog/climate-change-gd-topic/                 https://mbaroi.in/blog/national-green-hydrogen-mission-gd-topic/           https://mbaroi.in/blog/sustainble-transport-gd-topic/                                               https://mbaroi.in/blog/quick-commerce-vs-brick-and-mortar-store-the-battle-for-retail-supremacy/
Earn 1.50  Crore from Farming – Story of Smarika Chandrakaer Left High Paying Corporate Job
IIM Amritsar Sees 100% Placement – Highest Package of 58 LPA
XAT 2025 Registration Stared from 15th July – Check Dates, Eligibility, Syllabus and More
--- https://mbaroi.in/blog/cat-exam-analysis/
The Common Admission Test (CAT) 2024 maintained its reputation as a competitive and unpredictable exam. This year, the test presented a moderate difficulty level, with some notable changes in the pattern and question types. The overall difficulty varied across slots, with the evening slot being the easiest, while the afternoon slot was the most challenging.
Here’s a detailed section-wise and slot-wise breakdown of the CAT 2024, along with strategies for success and expected cutoffs.
Key Pattern Changes in CAT 2024
Data Interpretation and Logical Reasoning (DILR):
Number of questions increased from 20 to 22.
Mixed sets of 4-question and 5-question groups.
Verbal Ability and Reading Comprehension (VARC):
Para Formation questions were removed.
Intermixing of Reading Comprehension (RC) and Verbal Ability (VA) questions.
Quantitative Ability (QA):
Slightly easier compared to previous years, with fewer difficult questions.
Section-Wise Difficulty Overview
VARC: Moderate to Difficult. While the removal of Para Formation simplified the section for some, the intermixing of RC and VA questions added complexity.
DILR: Slightly easier than in previous years but required strong reasoning skills for complex sets.
QA: Relatively easier, with a focus on arithmetic and fewer tough algebra or geometry questions.
CAT Exam Slot-Wise Analysis
Overview: The morning session was moderately challenging but well-balanced across sections.
VARC: RC passages ranged from easy to moderate difficulty. Easier passages included “Australia’s Bandicoots” and “Accessibility of Modern Movie Content.” Topics like “Homo Economicus” and “Crafts & Manufacturing” were more demanding.
DILR:
Easier sets: “Candle-Stick Pattern of Stocks” and “Ratings & Bloggers.”
Tougher sets: “Countries Visited” and “Elections.”
QA: Arithmetic-based questions dominated, providing relief to test-takers. A few algebraic problems required deeper analysis.
Overall: A moderately difficult session, with strategic question selection being the key to scoring well.
Overview: The afternoon slot emerged as the toughest among all three slots.
VARC: RC passages on themes like “How Spices Changed the World” and “Open Peer Reviews” were complex, requiring critical reasoning. VA questions like Odd Man Out proved challenging.
Challenging sets: “Number Grid” and “Athletes and Coaches.”
Easier sets: “Streets and Lakes.”
QA: Slightly tougher than the morning slot. Arithmetic questions remained manageable, but algebra and geometry problems were more time-intensive.
Overall: Test-takers faced a more intense challenge, demanding sharper time management and adaptability.
Overview: The evening slot was the easiest, providing some relief to test-takers.
VARC: RC passages like “Impact of AI on Culture” and “Extinction of Languages” were straightforward. The passage on “Contamination of Mars” required more scientific reasoning.
Easier sets: “OTT Users” and “Countries GDP.”
Complex sets: “ATM Network” and “Food Grains Content.”
QA: Arithmetic and algebra questions dominated, making it easier for students who prepared well in these areas.
Overall: A well-balanced slot with a relatively lower difficulty level.
Expected CAT 2024 Cutoffs
The following table outlines the expected scores for different percentiles:
Check out – Expected IIM Cutoff 2024
Key Takeaways for CAT Aspirants
Strategic Question Selection: Focus on identifying the easier sets or questions to maximize your score.
Time Management: Allocate time wisely across sections and within individual questions.
Practice and Accuracy: Regular practice and maintaining high accuracy are crucial for success.
Adaptability: Be prepared to adapt to new patterns and varying difficulty levels across sections.
CAT 2024 challenged test-takers with a mix of changes and complexities across sections. While some sections were easier than in previous years, others required sharper reasoning and time-management skills. Understanding the pattern, identifying scoring opportunities, and practicing consistently remain the keys to excelling in CAT.
If you’re preparing for the next CAT or evaluating your performance, consider focusing on arithmetic for QA, improving critical reasoning for VARC, and mastering logical reasoning for DILR. Strategic preparation and adaptability will ensure you are ready to ace the exam.
Group Discussion (GD) Topics 2022: Current GD Topics for MBA Students
Higher Education In India
--- https://mbaroi.in/blog/ai-with-management-education/
Why should management education be an exception when all industries are using Artificial intelligence (AI) for revolutionizing? Just like businesses are integrating AI in their operations, b schools are doing the same to raise future entrepreneurs, leaders, or managers.
44% of b-school programs cover AI’s role in society and business ethics and that makes it the most covered topic in b-school curriculum.
For anyone who’s pursuing a management degree, having AI knowledge is a must. AI tools are not only helpful in learning management theories but it also shapes your career opportunities. In this blog we will talk about AI in management education and why it should matter to you. Let’s talk about how AI is remodeling management education and why you should know about it.
1. Enhancing Students’ Learning Experience with AI in Management Education
– Personalized Learning for Students
Traditionally, all classes are one-size-fits-all! But this type of teaching can sometimes miss the mark considering single students’ learning needs. AI can change that. AI’s adaptive learning method analyzes students’ strengths and weaknesses. Personalized learning especially in MBA can make a lot of difference. Individuals can get instant feedback on their case studies or discrete guidance to improve their leadership skills.
– Improved Decision-Making Skills
Management education teaches you decision-making. So, AI-powered simulations incorporated with studies give students real-world scenarios to execute their decision-making skills. Scholars make choices, observe results, and learn from their mistakes with AI simulations which means no real-world risks. This kind of hands-on approach is really important for students to understand the effect of their decisions.
Even Harvard School follows this system!
– AI in Data Analysis
To make informed decisions, managers need data analysis skills. And AI assists business students in making informed decisions by simplifying data analysis. There are AI-powered tools that teach data analytics and help students analyze large datasets. With the analyzed data, one can identify trends, and make predictions.
2. Management Education Solutions Powered by AI
– Automated Administrative Tasks
Administrative tasks are crucial yet can be mundane as you do it regularly. AI helps in automating administrative chores such as course scheduling, assignment tracking, reminders, and more. Business Schools like Georgia Tech use AI assistant “Jill Watson” to answer student queries. This is how AI is solving management education problems.
– Career Path Guidance
MBA students face a lot of difficulty when it comes to choosing their career path. But not anymore because now AI-powered tools can analyze your skills, interests, passion, and academic performance to suggest prospective career routes. Business schools also use AI tools in order to guide their students for internships or job opportunities.
– Soft Skills Development
Communication, problem-solving leadership, and emotional intelligence come under soft skills. And are crucial for management roles. But schools counter challenging to teach. That’s when AI comes into the picture. AI helps business schools grow these skills through imitations and behavioral analysis. For example, virtual reality (VR) along with AI will allow contenders to go through mock team meetings or interviews to practice their communication and leadership skills.
3. Preparing Future Leaders and Entrepreneurs with AI-Driven Networking
– AI-Powered Networking Opportunities
AI is doing amazing when it comes to examining and recommending. As an MBA person, it’s important you network.  AI helps by facilitating personalized networking and endorsing connections. Based on your interests and objectives. Social Platforms like LinkedIn are already using AI to advocate connections.
Why AI in Management Education Matters for Your Career
AI in management education makes your learning easier and at the same time prepares you for the future.  AI is going to impact all industries; some of them are finance, marketing, and human resources. If you as a manager, understands AI’s role, you will be in high demand. Because companies now are expecting their employees to leverage technology for decision-making and effective strategy.
Learning and practicing management is not the same as it was earlier because of AI. AI innovations benefit students to become more adaptive, data-driven, and strategic, and brace for leadership roles. Management education is evolving with AI; it gives students and mentors the tools to make education fun and excel in the tech-driven business world. If you’re someone who wants to advance your MBA career start preparing to understand AI in depth. The shift toward AI in management education is not just a passing trend, it is here to stay. And you must make full use of it to make your career more accomplished and that too with ease.
Also read: https://mbaroi.in/blog/quick-commerce-vs-brick-and-mortar-store-the-battle-for-retail-supremacy/  ,
https://mbaroi.in/blog/india-vs-canada/ ,
https://mbaroi.in/blog/clicks-vs-bricks/
--- https://mbaroi.in/blog/25-interview-question-you-need-to-prepare-for-mba-admissions-interview/
Preparing for MBA Admissions Interview Questions? But no idea where to start!
It’s common among MBA aspirants to get confused with interview questions. Even though there are several MBA-related interview questions online and offline, it feels like a very less yet overwhelming. Let us help you with questions and how to answer them to look cool and confident. We’ve jotted down the top 25 or the most common 25 MBA admissions interview questions relevant even in the coming years. Without further ado, let’s jump to the questions because you’ll need time to brace yourself for the interviews.
MBA Admission Interview Questions: Introducing Yourself:
1. Tell me about yourself.
This question is all about you! When the interviewer asks you this- Sound confident about yourself and relate your background to your interest of pursuing an MBA.
Certain points to keep in mind are:- Cover your professional background and achievements, relevant skills and experiences, career goals, motivation for pursuing an MBA, reason for choosing the specific program, and personal interests.
Take care of the time you take while answering this question- Deliver your response concisely (1-2 minutes), mend your answer to match the MBA program, show enthusiasm and confidence, show light to skills, and practice beforehand for clarity and articulacy.
2. What’s the biggest lesson you’ve learned in your career?
Talk about something that your school has taught you to help you grow in your career or maybe your previous organization. Any significant lesson that shaped your professional approach?
3. What are your short- and long-term career goals?
Short-term goals are achieved within a year and long-term goals mean where you see yourself in 5-10 years. The correct answer can be anything just make sure you show how doing MBA fits into your roadmap to accomplishing these goals.
4. What are your main strengths and weaknesses?
Being honest is appreciated but you must know how to present yourself while being truthful. Mention your strengths as it is! And for weakness, articulate in such a way that it sounds more like a strength to the panel.
5. Tell me about a time you worked in a diverse team.
Answer this question by sharing your experience while working with people from different backgrounds and your learning from the experience.
MBA Admission Interview Questions: Leadership and Teamwork
6. How do you handle conflict?
Don’t say ‘I don’t involve myself in conflict’; demonstrate your problem-solving skills.
7. What is your leadership style?
There are different types of leadership styles, which you must have read during your bachelor’s days. Now, describe what type of leadership approach you use and why that works for you.
8. What’s your biggest professional achievement?
Talk about the moment where you made a measurable impact. Such as the implementation of a strategy made a huge contribution to an organization.
9. Describe a project that required teamwork.
Show enthusiastically your project where you worked with a team to get success. The main focus while narrating your project should be teamwork and how it helped to achieve success.
10. Tell me about a time you adapted to a challenging situation.
Challenging situations are part of life! This question has been put to asses your perseverance and flexibility to overcome unexpected challenges.
MBA Admission Interview Questions: Career Motivations and Goals
11. Why MBA and why now?
Institutes want to know your motivation for doing an MBA and why you decided to do it now. Draft an answer that gives them an idea of how this degree fits into your career timeline.
12. Why did you choose our program?
The schools want to understand your reason behind choosing them over others. In answer, you must say the school’s strengths, faculty, resources, or unique opportunities that align with your goals.
13. Walk me through your resume.
Be concise and talk about your achievements (mentioned in the resume) and how you are ready for an MBA.
14. How will you contribute to our program?
Let them know how your unique experiences and skills will contribute to their MBA community. And what values you are bringing.
15. What role do you see yourself in post-MBA?
Be a little descriptive here-express your ideal role post-MBA, including the type of company you are looking for, your position in it, and the responsibilities you want to take up.
MBA Admission Interview Questions: Challenges and Learning
16. What’s your greatest regret?
Regret can be anything. Not completing that last chapter and the exam paper has 10 marks questions from that chapter itself. Basically, one can regret for anything. You need to choose your regrets that show your maturity and progressiveness. And finally how you made sure it helped you to grow.
17. How do you handle criticism?
Don’t start with I don’t get criticism because I’m perfect. We are sure you are! But if you sound overconfident, not sure if the interviewers will take that positively. Instead, say you are open to feedback and work on it to improve yourself. You can also state an example from your life.
18. Describe a time you failed.
Failure is a part of life. Do you know someone who never failed? Neither do we! That’s why be honest about your failure and what you’ve learned from it.
19. Describe a time you faced an ethical dilemma.
This question is being asked to check your integrity and morals, describe an instance where you proved your ethical reasoning.
MBA Admission Interview Questions: Preparation and Interest
20. What’s a recent industry trend that interests you?
Talk about sustainability, artificial intelligence, or something that’s always trendy yet hit the right spot. You can also talk about recent news that impacting the business.
21. If not accepted, what’s your backup plan?
This is one of the questions that no one wants to hear from the admission panel ‘What if you don’t get accepted here?’. Don’t simply answer I’ll join other schools as this will give them an impression that you are not serious about their school. Also, don’t say I’ll give up on an MBA if not accepted here.
Rather be diplomatic and answer in a way that shows your resilience and planning. Tell them you have planned alternate routes to reach your career goals.
22. Any questions for me?
When they offer you to ask something, ASK something! It can be your doubt regarding any previous question, or you have any new query, something like this- ‘What are the most significant changes or developments in the MBA program that I should be aware of?’
23. What’s one of your favorite books, and why?
Trust us! You cannot go wrong with this! What if you talk about a book that is famous but it’s worse when you read it? So, don’t name any random books, only name the books that align with your professional or personal values. Pick out one or two books before going for an interview.
24. How do you stay updated on industry news?
B-schools look for candidates who are well-informed. To show your current news knowledge, refer to specific publications, podcasts, YouTube channels, or websites you regularly follow.
25. How would your colleagues describe you?
This question doesn’t mean you will call your colleagues and ask them their opinion of you! Think about praise, feedback, or compliments you have received from your colleague and form an answer.
Final Tips
Be concise with your answers – don’t stretch too much. Articulate answers with clear points and examples for clearer comprehension.
Stay positive – Even when you can’t answer something confidently, remember everyone makes mistakes but try to make as less as possible.
Demonstrate your research – Show that you have read about the program and understand how it helps you with your goals.
All the best, hope you get the school, you always wanted!
Read these blogs to ace your Group Discussions during your MBA interview: https://mbaroi.in/blog/india-vs-canada/ ,
https://mbaroi.in/blog/quick-commerce-vs-brick-and-mortar-store-the-battle-for-retail-supremacy/ ,
https://mbaroi.in/blog/e-commerce-vs-quick-commerce/ ,
Read this for top online MBA college: https://mbaroi.in/blog/top-mba-colleges-in-india-for-online-mba/
--- https://mbaroi.in/blog/mat-2024-registrations-are-closing-on-30th-november/
Planning to appear for MAT Exam 2024? It’s not too late to register. The registrations for MAT exam 2024 closing on 30th November 2024. Hurry up or else you will miss the date.
Students can appear for MAT either through a Computer-Based Test (CBT), an Internet-Based Test (IBT), or a Paper-Based Test (PBT) or choose one mode twice. It’s a crucial opportunity for all aspiring management students who are looking to secure their spot and take the first step toward their dream careers.
Important Dates to Remember:
CBT 1 Registration Deadline: November 30, 2024
PBT Registration Deadline: December 7, 2024
CBT 2 Registration Deadline: December 15, 2024
Exam Dates:
CBT 1: December 7, 2024
PBT: December 14, 2024
CBT 2: December 22, 2024
Registration Process:
The registration for MAT 2024 is an easy and straightforward online process where you can complete your application by:
Visit the AIMA MAT Website: Go to AIMA MAT (https://mat.aima.in/)
Create a MAT ID: Submit all your basic details like name, email, and phone number to create your MAT ID.
Verify Your Phone Number: For verification, use the one-time password (OTP) sent to your phone and verify your number to log in.
Pay the Application Fee: The fee for one MAT exam is ₹2,100. If you opt for IBT, PBT, and CBT or two CBTs, the fee would be ₹3,600. Students can make the payment using a debit/credit card or net banking.
Choose Exam Mode and Test Cities: While filing the form for registration, select your preferred exam mode (PBT/CBT/IBT) and choose two test cities (as per your preference).
Fill in the Details: Now, complete whatever remaining details are left in the form.
Upload Photo and Signature: Upload your photo (as per the required size and resolution) and also your signature in the prescribed format.
Select Institutes: While registering, you need to choose up to five institutes where AIMA will send your MAT scores.
Submit the Application: Final step is to submit the application and don’t forget to download it for future reference.
Note: Unlike other MBA entrance exams, there is no provision here (MAT Exam) for form correction once you have submitted it. In case, you make any mistakes, you’ve to fill out a new form and pay the fee again.
Why MAT?
MAT is an MCQ-based exam where candidates get 2 hours to complete their test. This exam is a gateway to several top B-schools in India (approximately 800 colleges).
Students who get good MAT scores can apply to institutions offering quality education, excellent faculty, and promising placement opportunities.
Whether you aim for a career in finance, marketing, operations, or any other management field, MAT provides you with a path to showcase your potential.
Final Call
It’s time you register for MAT exam 2024! If you miss this chance, you will also lose your chance to secure your future in renowned colleges.
Don’t forget: MAT 2024 registration are closing on 30th November 2024.
For any doubts or guidance regarding any MBA entrance exam (CAT, CMAT, XAT, and more), keep checking MBAROI.
Act now, and take the first step towards your MBA dream!
Master of Business Analytics – Everything You Need to Know
CAT 2024 Admit Card Release Today, November 5: Here’s How to Download Your Hall Ticket from iimcat.ac.in
--- https://mbaroi.in/blog/10-youtube-channels-to-watch-for-mba-students/
Do you always turn to YouTube while having your meal or anytime you do not know how to operate a new machine?
We all do that!
But do you know Youtube can also help you with your MBA career, that’s right!
Today, we are talking about the top 10 YouTube channels to watch for MBA students where you can learn new management terms, ace your MBA entrance exams, how to do business, be an entrepreneur and so much more.
keep yourself motivated with the well-known names of the business world after watching these 10 YouTube channels to watch for MBA students.
Let’s hop on-
1. Harvard Business Review
This is one of the management learning platforms that will help you to kickstart your MBA journey. It’s the ultimate business education channel for aspiring business leaders. Harvard Business Review is one of the best YouTube channels for business students.
You get in-depth articles, practical tools, and expert insights directly from the prestigious Harvard Business School. HBR offers different types of videos for management students across different formats:
Personal Development
Case Studies
Habits to Adopt
Upcoming Business and Corporate Trends
After watching the Harvard Business Review channel, you will:
Gain insights from leaders and industry professionals for rigorous business thinking.
Master proven methods to excel in an MBA career and lead teams and organizations.
Become a well-rounder who understands the business of today’s interconnected world.
Follow the channel and join their subscribers list of a million.
2. TEDx
TEDx is another YouTube channel with more than 41.9 million subscribers. Watching this YouTube channel will help MBA students expand their horizons beyond classrooms. This business education channel is about fascinating talks and a powerful learning tool for aspiring candidates.
You can listen to the best speakers in the world who talk about business, entrepreneurship, management, education, how to crack interviews, public speaking and so much more.
While searching we also stumbled upon TEDx by Taxila Business School, which is beyond amazing. Don’t forget to check that out as well.
Here’s what makes TEDx the best YouTube channels for business students:
Hear fresh perspectives from entrepreneurs, industry leaders, and thought-provoking educators.
Know about diverse communities, and broaden your understanding of international business landscapes.
Learn practical business strategies from experts to implement in your MBA career.
3. The Economist
The Economist has to be your go-to source for anything happening as global events. MBA students watching this YouTube channel will get expert insights into:
International News and Politics: As an MBA aspirant, you need to stay updated on the latest geopolitical developments and how they can impact your business.
Business and Finance: You cannot skip this part, where the Economist talks about the intricacies of global markets and economic trends.
Technology and Innovation: It also covers the cutting-edge advancements that are shaping our future with tech and innovation.
Culture and Society: Learn more about diverse cultures and societal issues to work in a diverse work environment.
This is one of the 10 YouTube channels to watch for MBA students where she can watch the signature blend of rigorous journalism with thought-provoking commentary.
Join 3.41 million people who are navigating a complex business landscape with The Economist.
4. T.I.M.E
Dreaming of joining the best B-schools like IIM or FMS? But don’t know where to start! There are so many YouTube channels that help MBA aspirants with their preparations for various exams such as CAT, XAT, NMAT, and more.
You can join T.I.M.E., as it gives you a conclusive guide on how to conquer CAT.
Their courses cover from basic concepts to advanced strategies, basically everything.
Why T.I.M.E as the best MBA student resources?
Students doing an MBA can learn from experienced faculty who know the ins and outs of the CAT and other management exams.
T.I.M.E YouTube channel helps you to get a thorough understanding of all sections: Verbal Ability and Reading Comprehension, Quantitative Ability, Data Interpretation, and Logical Reasoning.
Elevate your skills with mock tests, and regular practice tests, and finally assess your performance.
Prepare yourself not just for the CAT exam but ace other MBA entrance exams like XAT, SNAP, NMAT, MAT, and IIFT.
5. CATKing
With more than 500k subscribers, this YouTube channel helps MBA students crack their CAT, GMAT, SNAP, and other entrance exams.
CATKing Offers MBA study materials. Let’s see what comes under that:
In-depth Video Lessons: Learn from Rahul, who’s experienced in breaking down complex concepts into easy-to-understand explanations for MBA aspirants.
Must Knows: This youtube channel also talks about a few must haves for topper and exams candidates.
Doubt Clearing Sessions: Daily there’s a live session at 11:30 pm where your doubts will be answered and solved.
Resources for everyone: GMAT, XAT, GRE, or be it any exam, here you will find MBA student resources for preparation strategy.
6. Big Think
This dynamic YouTube channel with 7.43 million subscribers discusses thought-provoking talks from leading minds across industries.
Why Big Think is one of the top 10 YouTube Channels to Watch for MBA Students:
You can learn from the best experts like Bill Clinton and Bill Nye.
Broaden your horizon to match 21st-century business skills and concepts.
Understand practical strategies to apply directly to your career.
Gain diverse perspectives and viewpoints from thought leaders.
In-depth knowledge and understanding explored in the videos
7. Konversations by InsideIIM
Want to enter the gate of the Indian business landscape? This YouTube channel is your path. You can:
Listen to India’s brightest minds, from CEOs to rising stars; sharing their career journeys.
Experience life at India’s top business schools like IIMs without actually getting admitted.
Get practical knowledge and effective advice from experts in your industry.
Konversations by InsideIIM is the kind of YouTube channel every MBA student should watch to get inspired, informed, and career-guided.
Prepare for your dream job and college by subscribing to Konversations by InsideIIM today!
8. Start-Up Grind
As a startup enthusiast, this is the YouTube channel you can’t afford to skip.
Startup grind gives you startup ecosystem apprehension.
They are the world’s largest community of founders and innovators and bring together experts to share knowledge on various management and business topics.
Watch videos on informative sessions like:
Fundraising strategies
AI applications and trends
Product development and market fit
Founder-VC relationships
Entrepreneurial success stories
Listen to speakers from companies like Google, Zendesk, and Snowflake. Streamline yourself with new content regularly to stay updated.
9. GaryVee (Gary Vaynerchuk)
Gary Vaynerchuk, aka GaryVee, is a well-known entrepreneur, investor, and visionary leader. His YouTube channel is popular, especially among youngsters who want to try their hands in business, marketing, and entrepreneurship.
Gary is a Chairman of VaynerX and CEO of VaynerMedia and he shares:
Advice on digital marketing and social media to stay ahead
Innovative plan of action and strategies for business growth
Inspiring stories from his entrepreneurial journey
Daily vlogs that depict his CEO life
This YouTube channel has over 4.52 million subscribers. And if you are a fan of cool and amazing entrepreneurs who made their name in the field, you need to watch him and his channel.
10. Entrepreneur Magazine
Entrepreneur as the name suggest are for people or students who want to see them as entrepreneurs. Looking for inspiring stories, practical advice, or tips, this YouTube channel has got you covered.
Why an MBA student must watch the Entrepreneur YouTube channel:
Listen to successful entrepreneurs and learn to build thriving businesses.
Get insights on several business topics like marketing, finance, logistics, and operations.
Known about the latest industry trends and disruptive technologies.
Motivational Content to be resilient, innovative, and perseverant.
Even though there are hundreds of youtube channels that will help you in your business or entrepreneurial journey, these 10 YouTube channels to Watch for MBA Students are a must!
These videos will not only assist you in opening your mind to a new perspective but also give you a vision of how to convert your dreams into reality.
You should read this blog- https://mbaroi.in/top-50-business-schools/ if you are preparing for an MBA.
And for every MBA update and support, you know, where to look at!
MBAROI is always here to help you reach new heights.
Also read: https://mbaroi.in/blog/india-vs-canada/,
https://mbaroi.in/blog/e-commerce-vs-quick-commerce/  ,
https://mbaroi.in/mba-colleges-by-location/jaipur/rank-wise-top-mba-colleges-in-jaipur/
National Education Policy 2020 announced: Overview
--- https://mbaroi.in/blog/future-trends-of-management-education/
Are you a management education student or going to get admitted as an MBA? Then, you must know the future trends of management education.
Just like every other field, management education is transforming and we are going to see some significant emerging trends.
The recent years have seen evolving techs, adopting global business landscapes, and growing demand for skills in sustainability, innovation, and analytics.
It becomes crucial for aspiring managers or leaders to stay informed about emerging trends.
Before having a look at the top trends in management education and how these are shaping the curriculum, teaching methods, and skill sets, let’s know what management education is!
What is Management Education?
Management education means that academic discipline where the students are taught- knowledge, skills, and values that a manager or business leader should have.
As a management student, you will learn key aspects like developing management skills, imparting knowledge, fostering decision-making and problem-solving skills, and preparing students for leadership roles.
An individual should choose management education for her personal and professional growth. As it enables them to take on leadership roles or start their businesses. It also helps in developing transferable skills, improves employability prospects, and furnishes students with valuable knowledge sought by organizations.
1. Rise of Tech-Integrated Learning in Management Education
Technology is changing management education by integrating digital tools. Such as AI, machine learning, and data analytics have become major parts of management education now. Also, these have become essential in both the curriculum and the classroom/learning environment.
Online MBA Programs:
The rise in smooth tech has given birth to online MBA classes and we all know its popularity today.
It is accessible, affordable, and flexible: and it’s made possible because of technology.
Artificial Intelligence and Analytics:
AI is helpful for study as well as a great assistance to learning platforms. Analytics based on AI aid instructors in customizing their learning experiences.
Virtual and Augmented Reality:
Students can use VR and AR for business simulations and case studies, as these offer fascinating learning experiences. Top Bschools are using Virtual Reality to create a business environment without actually entering a real-world business landscape. This is done to improve student’s decision-making skills and engagement.
2. Emphasis on Soft Skills and Emotional Intelligence
Soft skills are considered more valuable in corporates today. As a management student, you need to have leadership skills, empathy, and communication. To work productively in diverse teams and manage different workplace dynamics.
Emotional Intelligence (EQ):
Companies don’t want robots to perform similar tasks every day. They want leaders or managers who have high EQ to understand and manage their and their team’s emotions.
Cross-Cultural Competency:
Because of how globalized companies are! Diversity hiring is encouraged at every office today. That’s why management students should learn to adapt and communicate effectively across different cultures. So to have a cordial work environment.
Collaborative Learning:
Management education programs encourage group projects and foster teamwork and collaboration skills. These are variedly wanted by employers in modern workplaces.
3. Focus on Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR):
Source: https://www.peakframeworks.com/post/corporate-social-responsibility
Another future trend of management education is corporate social responsibility and sustainability. Since environmental concerns and social responsibility have grown, many MBA courses are emphasizing sustainability and CSR in their curriculum.
Sustainable Business Practices:
Top Bschools are including sustainable management courses to help students learn about the triple bottom line (people, planet, profit).
Impact Investing:
It’s an approach where investors invest consciously considering its social and environmental impact. This is getting popular and that’s why schools are integrating impact investing in their courses.
Here students learn to examine both financial and social returns on their client’s investments.
Social Entrepreneurship:
Entrepreneurs who focus on social problems and carry out their venture to social societal problems are called social entrepreneurship. B-Schools are teaching future leaders responsible business practices.
4. Data-Driven Decision Making in Management Education
Businesses are becoming more data-centric as it aids accuracy. The future of management is going to rely highly on data literacy.
Big Data and Analytics:
MBA programs include courses in business intelligence, big data, and analytics because of its high demand among management graduates. Python and Tableau are the types of tools widely taught for data analysis.
Decision Science:
Data-backed decision-making is now crucial for students. They need to learn how to derive insights from large data sets. To make strategic decisions for the organization.
Financial Modeling and Forecasting:
Data also helps in forecasting and advanced financial modeling. That’s why programs equip students with practical tools for data-driven financial management.
5. Customized and Modular Learning Paths:
Personalization is a trend in every sector. Management education has to jump on this trend to keep their students at par.
Also, students expect programs to be tailored to their goals and not uniform.
Modular Programs:
Personalized courses will allow students to choose electives based on their appeal. Such as digital marketing, or international business.
Micro-Credentials and Certifications:
Apart from getting the degree, candidates obtain industry-recognized certificates in project management or data analytics. Which makes the students more valuable in the job market.
Flexible Course Structures:
There are courses with flexible scheduling and modular learning options. So, that students can make a path that takes them to their career goals.
6. Experiential and Real-World Learning
Experiential learning is becoming part of business schools. It bridges the gap between theory and practice. This not only creates a real-world environment but also helps students to master how to operate in actual life.
Internships and Live Projects:
Today, MBA programs integrate internships or projects with real companies to provide practical exposure and make students job-ready.
Case Method and Simulations:
Reputed Schools include case studies to teach students tacking real-world challenges strategic thinking and decision-making.
Startup Incubators and Entrepreneurship Labs:
Bschools help aspiring entrepreneurs by offering them resources in the form of startup incubators. Students work on the labs to bring their ventures to life with guidance from mentors.
Management education is evolving with the world of business. Top Bschools like Harvard, IIMs, Taxila Business School, and more are adopting these future trends of management education.
These above-discussed trends showcase a shift towards more practical yet personalized, and technology & data-driven learning experiences.
The trends foster management students to handle the complexities of modern business in a real working environment.
For anyone who’s considering an MBA or PGDM, you must comprehend these trends as it will assist you in picking out a course that matches with career goals.
Business schools that understand the importance of these management trends and adapt them to prepare their students for the business or corporate world are the kind of colleges you need to look for!
For more such MBA-related topics, you can always come back to MBAROI. Because we offer the best content for you to do your MBA successfully.
Preparing for interview? Read this- https://mbaroi.in/blog/india-vs-canada/,
--- https://mbaroi.in/blog/page/2/
Online MBA colleges in India (and abroad) have been all the rage since the lockdown because of a global outbreak of infectious disease. As per sources, Online Education to Reach $4.8B by FY25. Now, everyone is choosing online mode as it’s easy and so much …
Things to Do after CAT Exam
So, you are done with your CAT (Common Admission Test) exam and thinking about what to do next, then we have the answer for you! After months of hard work, preparing for the exam, and finally appearing for it, the next steps can seem frightful. …
Students who want to do an MBA must remember that applying to the top business schools is extremely competitive and intimidating and that’s why one cannot afford a single mistake. It can cost your chances of admission and jeopardize your career. To known what mistakes to …
The Common Admission Test (CAT) 2024 admit card is set to be released today, November 5, by the Indian Institute of Management (IIM) Calcutta. Candidates who have registered for CAT 2024 can download their admit cards from the official CAT website, iimcat.ac.in. The exam is …
All the students are concerned about their careers and confused while opting for a course. Choosing the correct PG course is significant for career growth and skill development. For 90% of the students, PG is their last official education and they make their career based …
CAT or Common Admission Test is the biggest management entrance exam in India. Almost 1500+ MBA colleges in India grant admission based on the score in this examination. CAT 2024 exam dates are out and will be held on 24 November. The top 10 MBA …
IIM Calcutta the conducting body of CAT 2024 release the official notification of the CAT exam. This time the notification was not released on the website instead IIM Calcutta uses the newspaper and its official LinkedIn account to inform about the exam. Registration for the …
On July 17, Global education analyst Quacquarelli Symonds released the rankings of executive MBA colleges worldwide. In this ranking, Oxford Business School achieved the highest ranking globally, and in India, IIM Bengaluru tops the list of QS Global MBA Rankings best executive MBA colleges. IIM …
Assume a situation where a girl left a high-paying corporate job started farming and earned 1.50 crore. Seems like a motivational movie story right but not this the truth of Smarika Chandrakar. Smarika Chandrakar a girl from the small town of Chattisgarh has become a …
Xavier Aptitude Test or XAT 2025 official notification is released by XLRI, Jamshedpur. Online registration for the XAT 2025 is starting from 15th July 2024. Interested candidates can register themselves on the official website of XAT 2025 – www.xatonline.com. More than 160 Top business schools …
PwC Hiring for MBA graduate for Gurugram location in Finance Department
PwC is now hiring experienced candidates for accounts analyst and finance at their Gurugram office. Candidates have to apply at the official website of Pwc. Job responsibilities include recording and analyzing financial transactions, receiving and paying invoices, maintaining the financial ledger account, analytics, and reconciliations …
IP University Launches Integrated BBA-MBA Course
Guru Gobind Singh Indraprastha University has recently launched an integrated five-year course for BBA-MBA starting in 2024. It is aligned with the accreditation of AICTE and NEP 2020 guidelines. As per the institute, this course will have 60 seats and admission will be based on …
IIM Amirtar or Indian Institute of Management Amritsar has completed its placement of the 2022-24 batch. Despite being a tough year for the IIM and IIT placements the IIM Amritsar ends the placements season on a good note. IIM Amritsar successfully placed 100% of the …
IGNOU Launches the 4 New MBA Courses – See the Details
Indira Gandhi National Open University (IGNOU) has come up with exciting news of launching 12 new courses. IGNOT launches the 4 new MBA courses in 4 different fields. Now the students have wide options to choose from MBA courses. Students can enrol in these programs …
Sports in India are becoming popular at a rapid pace and there are a lot of opportunities coming shortly.  Sports management courses are the products of increasing sports popularity.  This course deals with administration, operations, marketing, and a corporate aspect of the sports industry. It …
--- https://mbaroi.in/blog/page/7/
Looking for a bright and successful future in business management? Going for an MBA degree is probably the best decision. But just thinking about taking up an MBA is not enough. You need to do some homework before going for it.  And the most basic …
--- https://mbaroi.in/javascript:void(0);